CLAUSE 3: C
============================================================
Type: rent
Risk Level: medium
Word Count: 1340
------------------------------------------------------------

ompensation and Benefits. As full compensation for all services to be
rendered by the Employee to the Board in any capacity during the period of his
employment pursuant to this Agreement, the Employee shall receive the compensation
and benefits set forth below:
(a). Base Salary. The Board shall pay the Employee a base salary at the annual
rate of Four Hundred Thousand Dollars ($400,000). No more of this amount than is.
allowed by Florida Statutes shall be paid from public funds. The base salary shall be
payable in twelve (12) monthly payments in accordance with the pay plan applicable to.
the Chancellor position as a Senior Management Service employee, with applicable
deductions. Funding sources for the annual base salary include state appropriations
which are subject to an annual appropriation by the Florida Legislature and the Boatd
of Governors Foundation. The Employee shall also be eligible for all state-funded
salary increases.asséciated with his pay plan classification, unless otherwise provided
by law. The Board shall review Employee’s compensation in connection with the annual
evaluation of his performance; and, in its discretion, the Board may incréase (but not
decrease) the annual base salary.
(b) Incentive Compensation. As an incentive to the Employee, the Board will
establish an annual performance-based compensation program that provides
measurable outcomes for the Employee, the satisfaction of which provides the basis for
the award of incentive compensation. Asset forth in Section 2 above, the Chair will
conduct.an annual evaluation of the Employee and if the Employee has met or exceeded
expectations on the Performance Goals, the Employee will be eligible to receive a non-
recutring award of incentive compensation up to fifteen (15%) percent of his annual
base salary starting on or about December 31, 2023 and continuing annually thereafter.
The Board authorizes the Chair to award such compensation and authorizes the Board
of Governors Foundation to. provide for the payment.
(c) Housing and Vehicle Expense Allowance. The Board authorizes the Board of
Governors Foundation to provide the Employee with an annual housing and vehicie
expense allowarice of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) payable in two equal
installments of Twenty-five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) on or about November 30, 2022
and May 31, 2023 and continuing annually thereafter.
(d) State Benefits. The Employee shall be entitled to receive all State of Florida
employment benefits associated with the Senior Management Service pay plan as it
pertains to annual and sick leave, retirement and health insurance.
4, Miscellaneous Expenses,
(a) Business and Travel Expenses. The Board. shall reimburse the. Employee for
all reasonable business:and travel expenses in accordance with the Board’s standard
reimbursement policies in effect from time to time.
(b) Relocation Expenses. The Board shall provide a one-time payment of
Twenty-five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) payable within thirty (30) days of the Effective
Date of this Agreement for transition and relocation-related expenses.
5. Termination. :
(a) Termination by the Board. d
(1) For Cause, The Board may terminate this Agreement immediately for
cause upon written notice to the Employee. “Cause” shall mean any one or more
of the following: (1) the Employee's gross negligence, willful misconduct or
conscious disregard for the interests of the Board including misconduct as
defiried undez section 443.036(29), Florida Statutes; (2) the Employee’s conviction
of any criminal law (excluding non-criminal traffic-related laws and citations);
(3) the Employee engages in a transaction involving the Board in which the
Employee received. an improper personal benefit; or (4) material failure to ;
perform the duties that rises to the level of a breach of this Agreement that the
Employee fails to cure after thirty (30) days’ written notice from the Chair of the
Board.
(2) Without Cause. At any time during this Agreement, the Board may
terminate the Agreement without cause upon a two-thirds vote of the Board. In
the event the Board votes to terminate the Agreement without cause, the
Employee shall be entitled to receive monthly payments of ari amount equal to
one-twelfth:(1/12) of his annual base salary:in effect immediately prior to
termination for a period of time not to exceed twenty (20) weeks. The Employee
shall also be entitled to the payment of all accrued leave and other benefits in
accordance with the Board’s leave and benefits policies in effect at the time of
termination. If the Employee becomes gainfully employed during the twenty
(20) week period, the Employee agrees.to promptly notify the Board .and all
further payments under this section shall immediately cease.
(b) Termination by Employee. This Agreement may be terminated by the
Employee, provided the Employee gives the Board sixty (60) days’ written notice of his
intended date of termination, unless such sixty (60) day notice is waived by the Board in
its. discretion. Upon termination, the Employee’shall be entitled to receive all accrued
leave-and other benefits iri. accordance with the Board’s leave‘and benefits policies in
effect at the time.of termination. However, in the event termination by the Employee is
due to Employee's receiving less than the total compensation contemplated to him in
Section 3(a) and (c), or.a material reduction in the Employee's duties and.
responsibilities as set forth in Section 2 or in the Board’s Operating Procedures, the
Employee shall be entitled to receive monthly payments of an amount equal to one-
twelfth (1/12) of his annual base salary in effect immediately prior to termination for a
period not to exceed twenty (20) weeks and a pro rata share of any incentive
compensation. pursuant to Section (3)(b) based on the Employee's performance during
the current annual:evaluation period. If the Employee becomes gainfully employed
during the twenty (20) week period, the Employee agrees to promptly notify the Board
and all further payments under this section shall immediately cease.
6. Entire Agreement and Modification. This Agreement constitutes the
entire understanding of the parties and supersedes any and all prior or
contemporaneous representations or agreements, whether written or oral, with respect
to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement can be modified only by written
instrument properly executed by the parties.
7. Waiver. No delay or failure to enforce any provision of this Agreement
shall constitute a’waiver or limitation of rights under this Agreement.
8. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in
accordance with the laws of the State of Florida.
9. No Assignment. This Agreement and all of the Employee’s rights,
benefits, duties and obligations hereunder are personal in nature and shall not be
assignable by the Employee.
10. Binding Effect. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and shall be
legally binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors, heirs and legal
representatives.
11. Notices. All notices or other communications provided for herein shall be
made in writing and shall be effected by hand delivery or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, and shall be deemed delivered as of the earlier of the time of actual
receipt or five (5) days after mailing. Such notices and other-communications shall be
sent to the persons set.forth below at the following addresses:
If to.the Board, to: Board of Governors
Attn: Chairperson
200 West College
Tallahassee, Florida 32301
If to the Employee, to: Raymond Rodrigues
At his residential address on file at the Board Office
12. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall
constitute one and the same instrument.
13. Severability. Inthe event any one or more of the provisions.of this
Agreement shall for any reason he held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining
provisions of this Agreement shall be unimpaired, and the invalid, illegal or
unenforceable provision shall be replaced by a mutually acceptable valid and
enforceable provision.
14. Recitals. The above Recitals are true and accurate, and they are incorporated
into this Agreement and made a part thereof.
THEREFORE, intending to be legally bound hereby, each of the parties has
executed and delivered this Employment Agreement on the dates specified below.
BOARD OF GOVERNORS, STATE UNIVERSITY
SYSTEM OF FLORIDA
By: LE / —— ee
Brigh L&mb, Chair
EMPLOYEE - RAYMOND RODRIGUES
By: — Bay < Fadigyen
49808464