CLAUSE 2: B
============================================================
Type: maintenance
Risk Level: high
Word Count: 2065
------------------------------------------------------------

orrower’s ownership or operation of the Project or any act or
omission of the Borrower or any of its agents, contractors, servants, employees or
licensees in connection with the Loan or the Project, the operation of the Project, or the
condition, environmental or otherwise, occupancy, use, possession, conduct or
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 15
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
management of work done in or about, or from the planning, design, acquisition,
installation, operation or rehabilitation of, the Project or any part thereof;
3. any lien or charge upon payments by the Borrower to the
County, or any taxes (including, without limitation, all ad valorem taxes and sales taxes),
assessments, impositions and other charges imposed on the County in respect
of any portion of the Project;
4. any violation of any environmental law, rule or regulation with
respect to, or the release of any toxic substance from, the Project or any part thereof;
5. any untrue statement or misleading statement or alleged untrue
statement or alleged misleading statement of a material fact by the Borrower contained in
any Loan Document or any of the documents or instruments relating to said Loan
Documents that the County relied upon in making the Loan except to the extent such
damages are caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified
Party. In the event that any action or proceeding is brought against any Indemnified Party
with respect to which indemnity may be sought hereunder, the Borrower, upon written
notice from the Indemnified Party, shall assume the investigation and defense thereof,
including the employment and payment for counsel selected by the Indemnified Party,
and shall assume the payment of all reasonable expenses related thereto, with full power
to litigate, compromise or settle the same; provided that the Indemnified Party shall have
the right to review and approve or disapprove any such compromise or settlement.
6. If judgment is entered against Borrower and County by a court of
competent jurisdiction because of the concurrent active negligence of County or
Indemnified Parties, Borrower and County agree that liability will be apportioned as
determined by the court. Neither Party shall request a jury apportionment.
7.5 Entry by the County. Borrower shall permit the County, through its
officers, agents, or employees, at all reasonable times to enter into or onto the Property or
the Project and inspect the Project to determine that the same is in conformity with the
Loan Documents and all the requirements hereof. Borrower acknowledges that the
County is under no obligation to supervise, inspect, or inform Borrower of the results of
its said inspection(s) and Borrower shall not rely upon the County therefor. Any
inspection by the County is entirely for its purposes in determining whether Borrower is
in default under this Agreement or the Loan Documents. Borrower shall rely entirely
upon its own supervision and inspection.
7.6 Hazardous Materials. Borrower shall indemnify, defend and hold
harmless the County, and its respective elected and appointed officials, members,
directors, officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns from and against any loss,
damage, cost, expense or liability directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to the
use, generation, storage, release, threatened release, discharge, disposal, or presence of
hazardous materials on, under, or about the Project, including without limitation: (a) all
foreseeable consequential damages; (b) the costs of any required or necessary repair,
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 16
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
cleanup or detoxification of the Project and the preparation and implementation of any
closure, remedial or other required plans; and (c) all reasonable costs and expenses
incurred by the County or County in connection with clauses (a) and (b), including but
not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees.
7.7 Transfers. During the Term, Borrower shall not sell or otherwise transfer
the Project or any portion thereof, and none of the constituent general partners of
Borrower shall sell or otherwise transfer their interests in Borrower, and none of the
constituent general partners in a partnership that is a partner in Borrower shall sell or
otherwise transfer their interest in such partnership without first obtaining the approval of
the County, which consent the County may withhold or grant in the exercise of its good
faith discretion. The County shall not approve any such transfer request if the Borrower
is in default under any of the Loan Documents or the Management Plan.
7.8 Management; Annual Marketing and Management Plans. Any
management company of the Project and the management agreement with such
management company shall be subject to the prior written approval of the County. The
management agreement shall not be amended, modified, supplemented, terminated or
canceled without the prior written consent of the County. Borrower and the County (if it
so elects) will cooperate in the marketing of the units on the Property pursuant to a
marketing plan (the “Marketing Plan”) prepared by the Borrower and approved by the
County. Said Marketing Plan and the Management Plan described in Section 4.1 hereof
shall be prepared by the Borrower and approved by the County on an annual basis;
however, the Borrower shall provide quarterly written supplements to said approved
plans (or more frequently if requested by the County).
7.9 Operation and Maintenance of Project.
(a) Operation. During the Qualified Project Period, Borrower shall at all
times operate on the Project an affordable housing rental facility in compliance with this
Agreement and the Regulatory Agreement.
(b) Maintenance. During the Qualified Project Period, Borrower agrees to
maintain all interior and exterior improvements, including landscaping (and all abutting
ground, sidewalks, roads, parking and landscape areas) on the Project in good condition,
repair and sanitary condition (and, as to landscaping, in a healthy condition) and in
accordance with any Management Plan approved by the County under the Loan
Agreement (including without limitation any landscape and signage plans), as the same
may be amended from time to time, and all other applicable laws, rules, ordinances,
orders, and regulations of all federal, state, county, municipal, and other governmental
agencies and bodies having jurisdiction and all their respective departments, bureaus, and
officials. Borrower acknowledges the great emphasis the County places on quality
maintenance to protect its investment and to provide quality low-income housing for its
constituents and to ensure that all County-subsidized affordable housing projects within
the County are not allowed to deteriorate due to deficient maintenance. In addition,
Borrower shall keep the Project free from all graffiti and any accumulation of debris or
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 17
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
waste material. Borrower shall promptly make all repairs and replacements necessary to
keep the Project in good condition and repair and shall promptly eliminate all graffiti and
replace dead and diseased plants and landscaping with comparable approved materials.
Borrower shall not commit or permit any waste or deterioration of the Project, shall not
abandon any portion of the Project, and shall not otherwise act, or fail to act, in such a
way as to unreasonably increase the risk of damage to the Project.
In the event that Borrower breaches any of the covenants contained in this Section
9.9 and such default continues for a period of five (5) days after written notice from
County (with respect to graffiti, debris, waste material, and general maintenance) or thirty
(30) days after written notice from County (with respect to landscaping and building
improvements), then County, in addition to whatever other remedies it may have under
this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or at law or in equity, shall have the right to
enter upon the Project and perform or cause to be performed all such acts and work
necessary to cure the default. Pursuant to such right of entry, the County shall be permit-
ted (but not required) to enter upon the Project and perform all acts and work necessary to
protect, maintain and preserve the improvements and landscaped areas on the Project, in
the amount of the expenditure arising from such acts and work of protection,
maintenance, and preservation by County and/or reasonable costs of such cure, including
a fifteen percent (15%) administrative charge, which amount shall be promptly paid by
Borrower to County upon demand.
(c) Removal of Personal Property. During the Qualified Project Period,
Borrower shall not cause or permit the removal from the Project of any items of
Borrower’s personal property (other than tools and equipment used in the operation of the
Project) unless (i) no Event of Default remains uncured and (ii) Borrower promptly
substitutes and installs on the Project other items of equal or greater value in the
operation of the Project, all of which shall be free of liens and shall be subject to the liens
of the Deed of Trust and the Financing Statement and executes and delivers to County all
documents required by County in connection with the attachment of such liens to such
items. Borrower shall keep detailed records of such removal and shall make such records
available to County upon written request from time to time.
7.10 Status of Borrower. Borrower shall at all times maintain its legal status
and all material licenses, rights, franchises and privileges in the jurisdiction of its
formation in good standing and comply with all laws, rules and regulations of California
and the United States and of any political subdivision thereof applicable to it or its
business.
7.11 Insurance. While any obligation of Borrower under any Loan Document
remains outstanding, Borrower shall maintain at Borrower's sole expense, the following
policies of insurance in form and substance as follows:
(a) Commercial General Liability insurance in an amount not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate;
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 18
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
(b) Commercial Auto Liability insurance covering all owned, non-owned and
hired autos with a limit of $1,000,000 per occurrence);
(c) Statutory Workers' compensation insurance and Employer’s Liability with
a minimum limit of $1,000,000 per occurrence (amounts subject to change to ensure
proper coverage);
(d) Commercial Property Insurance on an “All Risk” or “Special Causes of
Loss” form for 100% of the Replacement Cost Value and no coinsurance provision.
(including insurance against loss by flood if the Project is located in an area now or
hereafter designated as subject to the danger of flood, but excluding insurance against
loss by earthquake);
(e) Rent loss insurance for a period of at least one year;
(f) The Commercial Property policy, shall include a "lender's loss payable
endorsement" to the County assuring County that all proceeds shall be paid to County as
provided in the Deed of Trust subject to the interests of the senior lenders on the Project.
The County shall be an additional named insured on the Commercial General Liability
policy, and such insurance shall be primary and any insurance maintained by the County
shall be excess and non-contributing. All policies shall waive all rights of subrogation
against the County, its elected and appointed officials, officers, agents, and employees.
The general liability policy shall contain a severability of interests clause. Certificates of
insurance and endorsements for all of the above policies (and/or original policies, if
required by the County from time to time), showing the same to be in full force and
effect, shall be delivered to the County;
(g) All self-insured retentions (SIRs) shall be clearly stated on the Certificate
of Insurance. Any self-insured retention (SIR) in an amount in excess of Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($50,000) shall specifically be approved by the County’s Risk Manager, or
designee, upon review of Borrower’s current audited financial report. If Borrower’s SIR
is approved, Borrower, in addition to, and without limitation of, any other indemnity
provision(s) in this Contract, agrees to all of the following:
1. In addition to the duty to indemnify and hold the County harmless
against any and all liability, claim, demand or suit resulting from
Borrower, its agents, employee’s or subcontractor’s performance of
this Contract, Borrower shall defend the County at its sole cost and
expense with counsel approved by Board of Supervisors against
same; and
2. Borrower’s duty to defend, as stated above, shall be absolute and
irrespective of any duty to indemnify or hold harmless; and