CLAUSE 3: T
============================================================
Type: duration
Risk Level: low
Word Count: 2537
------------------------------------------------------------

he provisions of California Civil Code Section 2860 shall apply to
any and all actions to which the duty to defend stated above applies,
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 19
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
and the Borrower’s SIR provision shall be interpreted as though the
Borrower was an insurer and the County was the insured.
Upon notice of any actual or alleged claim or loss arising out of
subcontractor’s work hereunder, subcontractor shall immediately satisfy in full the SIR
provisions of the policy in order to trigger coverage for the Borrower and Additional
Insureds.
If the Borrower fails to maintain insurance acceptable to the County for
the full term of this Contract, the County may terminate this Contract.
7.12 Alterations and Repair. Except with the prior consent of the County,
during the Qualified Project Period, Borrower shall not remove, demolish or materially
alter any improvement constituting the Project, except to make non-structural repairs
which preserve or increase the Project’s value, and shall promptly restore, in good and
workmanlike manner, any said improvement (or other aspect of the Project) that is
damaged or destroyed from any cause.
7.13 Changes in Property Restrictions. Borrower shall not initiate, join in or
consent to any change in any applicable zoning ordinance, general plan or similar law, or
to any private restrictive covenant or any similar public or private restriction on the use of
the Project, except with the prior written consent of the County.
7.14 Books, Records and Annual Statement. Borrower shall maintain complete
books of account and other records reflecting the construction and operation of the
Project in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a
consistent basis. During the Qualified Project Period, the amount of the Residual
Receipts (as defined in the Note) shall be determined on the basis of an annual audited
financial statement (”Annual Statement”), for the preceding year, beginning with the first
year of operation of all or any part of the Project, prepared at the Borrower’s expense by
an independent certified public account firm acceptable to the County. Such Annual
Statement shall be prepared based on the guidelines, and taking into account the
information, set forth on Exhibit “C,” attached hereto and incorporated herein. During
the Qualified Project Period, the Borrower shall submit the Annual Statement and any
payment to the County not later than six (6) months after closing of the Borrower’s
previous year’s books. The first Annual Statement submitted by the Borrower for the
Loan shall include the period from the Completion of Construction to the close of that
year’s books. The County shall review and approve such statement, or request revisions,
within ninety (90) days after receipt. In the event that as the result of County review,
there is an increase in the amount of Residual Receipts, Borrower shall pay to the County
the full amount of such increase within ten (10) days of notice of such increases. The
terms of this subsection shall not be the exclusive method by which the County may
review Residual Receipts payments by the Borrower. In the event that an increase in the
amount of Residual Receipts for any annual period is discovered at any time subsequent
to the ninety (90) day period for that year’s books, no previous action or inaction by the
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 20
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
County shall prohibit the County from requesting repayment of those amounts at any
time during the term of this Agreement or thereafter. The Borrower shall pay to the
County the full amount of such increase within thirty (30) days of notice of such increase
for periods prior to the previous year.
7.15 Notices of Certain Matters. Borrower shall give notice to County, within
ten (10) days after Borrower receives actual knowledge thereof, of each of the following:
(a) Any litigation or claim against the Borrower relating to the Property or the
Project and involving an amount in excess of $25,000 and any litigation or claim that
might subject Borrower or any constituent partner of Borrower to liability in excess of
$50,000, whether covered by insurance or not;
(b) Any dispute between Borrower and any governmental or public agency
relating to the Property or the Project, the adverse determination of which might
materially affect the Project;
(c) Any trade name hereafter used by Borrower and any change in Borrower’s
principal place of business;
(d) Any Event of Default or event, which, with the giving of notice or the
passage of time, without ameliorative action, or both, would constitute an Event of
Default;
(e) Any default by Borrower or any other party under any Loan Document or
Mortgage Document, or the receipt by Borrower of any notice of default under any Loan
Document or Mortgage Document;
(f) The creation or imposition of any mechanics’ lien or other lien against the
Project;
(g) The presence of any hazardous materials on, under or about the Property
or the Project; any enforcement, clean-up, removal or other action or requirement of any
local, state or federal governmental or quasi-governmental authority with jurisdiction
relating to any such hazardous materials; and the existence of any occurrence of
conditions on any property in the vicinity of the Project that could cause any portion of
the Project to be classified as “border-zone property” under the provisions of the
California Health and Safety Code or any related regulations, or that could cause the
Project to be otherwise subject to any restrictions relating to hazardous materials; and
(h) Any material adverse change in the financial condition of Borrower or any
of its constituent general partners.
7.16 Further Assurances. Borrower shall execute and acknowledge (or cause to
be executed and acknowledged) and deliver to County all documents, and take all
actions, reasonably required by County from time to time to confirm the rights created or
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 21
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
now or hereafter intended to be created under the Loan Documents, to protect and further
the validity, priority and enforceability of the Loan Documents, to subject to the Loan
Documents any property intended by the terms of any Loan Document to be covered by
the Loan Documents, or otherwise to carry out the purpose of the Loan Documents and
the transactions contemplated thereunder.
7.17 Liens. Borrower shall not cause or suffer to become effective any lien,
restriction or other title limitation affecting any part of the Project other than the (i)
Regulatory Agreement, the Deed of Trust, the Financing Statement and the liens of the
Permitted Financing and (ii) taxes not delinquent.
7.18 Payment of Expenses. Borrower shall pay the County's costs and
expenses incurred in connection with the making, disbursement and administration of the
Loan, as well as any revisions, transfers, extensions, renewals, modifications, refinancing
or "workouts," and providing estoppels or subordinations of the Loan, and in the exercise
of any of County's rights or remedies under this Agreement. The County will receive
from Borrower a nonrefundable fee in the amount of Five Hundred Dollars ($500) and
Borrower shall reimburse County for all of the County’s reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses (including reasonable attorney’s fees) incurred in the administration and review
of such changes, to the extent such expenses exceed Five Hundred Dollars ($500). Such
costs and expenses may include title insurance, recording and escrow charges, survey
charges, hazard insurance, premiums, fees for any appraisals and any appraisal reviews,
architectural and engineering review, construction services and environmental and toxic
services and reviews, zoning and entitlement services and reviews, mortgage taxes, legal
fees and any other reasonable fees and costs for services, regardless of whether such
services are furnished by the County's employees or agents or independent contractors.
7.19 Loan Monitoring Fees. Unless prohibited by Federal, State or local laws,
the Borrower shall pay an annual loan monitoring fee during the Term. Loan monitoring
fees shall be incorporated into the operating pro forma. The loan monitoring fee shall
include a one time payment (“One Time Payment”) of Five Hundred Dollars ($500) to
be used for project set-up plus an annual fee (“Annual Fee”) of [AMOUNT] ($XXX),
which will be used to offset the reasonable costs associated with loan monitoring. The
initial One Time Payment fee and initial Annual Fee will be payable to the County at the
Close of Escrow. The Annual Fee will be due each subsequent year for the Qualified
Project Period on or within thirty (30) days of the day and month that this Agreement was
entered into as set forth on page one hereof. Loan monitoring fees will be adjusted
annually. The annual adjustment shall be in accordance with the change in the Consumer
Price Index for Los Angeles –Anaheim - Riverside (All Urban Consumers – All Items)
promulgated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor. This
adjustment shall be calculated by means of the following formula:
A = B x C
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 22
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
Where: A = Adjusted Annual Fee
B = Annual Fee (as such Annual Fee may have been previously adjusted)
C = Average monthly index for the most recent twelve-month period
D = Average monthly index for the twelve-month period preceding the date of
this Loan Agreement.
In the event that the Consumer Price Index (CPI) ceases to use 1982-84 = 100 as the basis
of calculation, or if, in County’s sole judgment, a substantial change is made in the
method used by the federal government to determine the CPI or the items used to
calculate the CPI, then the CPI shall be converted to the figure that would have been
calculated at (or as close to such figures as shall be practical) had the manner of
calculating the CPI in effect at the date of this Loan Agreement not been altered.
In the event that the CPI is not issued or published for the period for which such
minimum Annual Fees are to be adjusted and computed hereunder, or in the even that the
Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor should cease to
publish said index figures, then any similar index published by any other branch or
department of the United States Government selected by County, shall be used and if
none is so published, then another index general recognized as authoritative shall be
substituted by County.
In the event that the Borrower is required to pay a monitoring fee or One-Time Payment
pursuant to this section any amounts paid towards the monitoring fee or One Time
Payment for the HOME/OTHER COUNTY Loan to the Borrower shall be credited to
the amount due under this section, such that the maximum monitoring fee and One-Time
Payment hereunder combined with the monitoring fee and One-Time Payment for the
HOME Loan shall not exceed $1215, as adjusted in accordance with this section.
[Omitted if HOME/OTHER COUNTY funding is not an additional award.]
7.20 Subcontracts.
(a) Upon request of County, or their designated agent, Borrower shall submit
any requested Subcontract agreements to the County for review and consent. Any
requested Subcontracts shall be submitted to County within forty-eight (48) hours of such
request.
(b) Borrower shall assume responsibility for all subcontracted services to
assure compliance with this Agreement.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 23
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
(c) Borrower shall cause all of the applicable provisions of this Agreement in
its entirety to be included in and made a part of any subcontract executed in the
performance of this Agreement.
7.21 Relocation. Borrower shall, if applicable, in all matters relating to the
Project:
(a) Take all reasonable steps to minimize displacement by providing tenants a
reasonable opportunity to lease and occupy dwelling units in the Project being improved,
if applicable;
(b) Submit to County a plan outlining financial and advisory assistance in
securing temporary housing for any eligible tenant who is temporarily or permanently
relocated due to the Project; and,
(c) Comply with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property
Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 and 49 CFR 24 in providing relocation assistance for
persons displaced by the Project.
(d) Have in effect, and follow a residential anti-displacement and relocation
plan required under Section 104 (d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of
1974, as amended, in conjunction with any activity assisted with funds under the subject
program.
7.22 HOME Requirements. The Borrower shall carry out the design,
construction and operation of the Project, and operate the Program, in conformity with all
applicable laws, regulations, and rules of governmental agencies having jurisdiction,
including without limitation, the HOME Requirements and the legal requirements set
forth in Exhibit No. [X] attached to this Agreement and the statutes referenced therein.
For purposes of this paragraph, “HOME Requirements” mean the requirements of the
HOME Investment Partnership Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. § 12741, et seq.), and the
implementing regulations (24 C.F.R. § 92, et seq.), and the legal requirements
summarized or referenced in Exhibit No. D attached hereto and incorporated herein by
this reference. [Intentionally Omitted if inapplicable.]
7.23 Mental Health Services Act Requirements. The Borrower shall carry out
the design, construction and operation of the Project, and operate the Program, in
conformity with all applicable laws, regulations, and rules of governmental agencies
having jurisdiction, including without limitation, the requirements set forth in California
Welfare and Institutions Code Section 5771.1 et. seq. and, without limitation, the
requirements found in Exhibit No. D attached to this Agreement. [Intentionally Omitted
if inapplicable.]
7.24 Housing Successor Agency/County and/or Project Based Voucher
Requirements. The Borrower shall carry out the design, construction and operation of the
Project, and operate the Program, in conformity with all applicable laws, regulations, and
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 24
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
rules of governmental agencies having jurisdiction, including without limitation, the
requirements set forth in state and federal law and, without limitation, the requirements
found in Exhibit No. D attached to this Agreement. [Intentionally Omitted if
inapplicable.]
7.25 Lender Recognition. The owner shall ensure recognition of the role of the
County in providing funds through this Agreement. All activities, facilities and items
utilized pursuant to the Agreement shall be prominently labeled as to funding source.
7.26 Child Support Enforcement Requirements.
(a) In order to comply with child enforcement requirements of the County,
within 30 days of the close of escrow, Borrower agrees to furnish to the County:
1. In the case of an individual Borrower, his/her name, date of birth,
Social Security number, and residence address;
2. In the case of an Borrower doing business in a form other than as
an individual, the name, date of birth, Social Security number, and residence address of
each individual who owns 10% or more of the Project;
3. A certification that the Borrower has fully complied with all
applicable federal and state reporting requirements regarding its employees; and,