CLAUSE 5: B
============================================================
Type: duration
Risk Level: high
Word Count: 6493
------------------------------------------------------------

orrower is financing the construction of the improvements and related
costs and expenses through, among others, during the Qualified Project Period, as defined
below, the following sources (collectively, the “Permitted Financing”)::
[FINANCING SOURCES TO BE OUTLINED FORTHWITH]
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 1
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
The following terms used in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings
assigned to them in this Article I unless the context in which they are used clearly
requires otherwise:
1.1. "Adjusted Income" shall mean the adjusted income of all persons who
intend to reside in one residential unit, calculated in the manner which complies
with determinations of income for low income families under the Department of
Housing and Urban Development’s Section 8 Program of the United States
Housing Act of 1937, as amended.
1.2. "Agreement" shall mean this Loan Agreement.
1.3. “Area" shall mean Orange County.
1.4. “Assignment of Leases” shall mean that certain Assignment of Lessor’s
Interest in Leases, Rents and Profits executed by Borrower of even date herewith.
1.5. “Borrower” shall mean [XXXX]
1.6. “Close of Escrow" shall mean the date on which through the Escrow
Holder and the Deed of Trust together with the other Loan Documents set up for
recording are in fact recorded.
1.7. "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from
time to time hereafter, or any successor statute thereto.
1.8. “Conversion Date” the date that a construction loan converts from the
construction phase, as defined in the senior construction loan document, to the
permanent phase and the County Loan is funded.
1.9. "County" shall mean the [County of Orange, a political subdivision of the
state of California] or [Orange County Housing Authority, a public corporation
created pursuant to California Health and Safety Code section 34200 et. seq.,
acting solely as the Housing Successor Agency to the Orange County
Development Agency].
1.10. "Deed of Trust" shall mean that certain Deed of Trust, Assignment of
Rents and Security Agreement executed by the Borrower in favor of the County
of even date herewith.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 2
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
1.11. "Director" shall mean the [Orange County Housing Authority Executive
Director] OR [OC Community Resources Director] or her or his designee.
1.12. "Due Date" shall mean the date which is fifty-five (55) years following the
Conversion Date, on which all principal and interest due on the Loan shall be
fully paid.
1.13. "Escrow Holder" shall mean the escrowholder approved by the County for
the escrow established to facilitate the Close of Escrow.
1.14. "Financing Plan" shall mean the financing plan described in Section 4.1
below.
1.15. “Financing Statement" shall mean the UCC-1 form to be prepared and
executed by Borrower, in a form satisfactory to the County, and delivered to the
County, the filing of which shall give the County a perfected security interest in
Borrower's tangible personal property and fixtures located on or about the Project.
1.16. “Hazardous Materials” or “hazardous materials” shall mean:
(a) any oil, flammable substance, explosive, radioactive material,
hazardous waste or substance, toxic waste or substance or any other waste,
material, or pollutant that
(i) poses a hazard to the Project or to persons on the Project or
(ii) causes the Project to be in violation of any Hazardous
Substance Law;
(b) asbestos in any form;
(c) urea formaldehyde foam insulation;
(d) transformers or other equipment that contain dielectric fluid
containing levels of polychlorinated biphenyls;
(e) radon gas;
(f) any chemical, material, or substance defined as or included in the
definition of “hazardous substance,” “hazardous substances,” “hazardous wastes,”
“hazardous materials,” “extremely hazardous waste,” “restricted hazardous
waste,” or “toxic substances” or words of similar import under any applicable
local, state, or federal law or under the regulations adopted or publications
promulgated pursuant to those laws, including, but not limited to, any Hazardous
Substance Law, Code of Civil Procedure § 564, as amended from time to time,
Code of Civil Procedure § 726.5, as amended from time to time, Code of Civil
Procedure §736, as amended from time to time, and Civil Code § 2929.5, as
amended from time to time;
(g) any other chemical, material, or substance, exposure to which is
prohibited, limited, or regulated by any governmental authority or which may
pose a hazard to the health and safety of the occupants of the Project or the
owners or occupants of property adjacent to or surrounding the Project, or any
other person coming on the Project or any adjacent property; and
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 3
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
(h) any other chemical, material, or substance that may pose a hazard
to the environment flammable materials, explosives, radioactive materials,
hazardous wastes, toxic substances and similar substances and materials,
including all substances and materials defined as hazardous or toxic wastes,
substances or materials under any applicable law, including, without limitation the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et. seq., as
amended.
1.17. “Hazardous Substance Law” means any federal, state, or local law,
ordinance, regulation, or policy relating to the environment, health, and safety,
any Hazardous Substance (including, without limitation, the use, handling,
transportation, production, disposal, discharge, or storage of the substance),
industrial hygiene, soil, groundwater, and indoor and ambient air conditions or the
environmental conditions on the Project, including, without limitation, the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 [42 USCS §§ 9601 et seq.], as amended from time to time; the Hazardous
Substances Transportation Act [49 USCS §§ 1801 et seq.], as amended from time
to time; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act [42 USCS §§ 6901 et seq.],
as amended from time to time; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act [33 USCS
§§ 1251 et seq.], as amended from time to time; the Hazardous Substance
Account Act [Health and Safety Code §§ 25300 et seq.], as amended from time to
time; the Hazardous Waste Control Law [Health and Safety Code §§ 25100 et
seq.], as amended from time to time; the Medical Waste Management Act [Health
and Safety Code §§ 25015 et seq.], as amended from time to time; and the Porter-
Cologne Water Quality Control Act [Water Code §§ 13000 et seq.], as amended
from time to time.
1.18. "Loan" shall mean the Loan in the amount of --------------- ($---------------)
by the County to the Borrower, which Loan is the subject of this Agreement.
1.19. "Loan Documents" shall mean the following documents evidencing the
Loan: (a) the Note; (b) the Deed of Trust; (c) the Financing Statement; (d) the
Regulatory Agreement; (e) Request for Notice of Default; (f) the Assignment of
Leases; and (g) this Loan Agreement.
1.20. "Management Plan" shall mean that management plan submitted to and
approved by the County pursuant to Section 4.1 below.
1.21. “Marketing Plan” shall mean that certain Marketing Plan submitted to and
approved by the County pursuant to Section 7.8 hereof.
1.22. "Median Income for the Area" shall mean the median income for the Area
as most recently determined by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”) and published by the State of California. In the
event that such income determinations are no longer published, or are not updated
for a period of at least eighteen (18) months, the County shall provide the
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 4
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
Borrower with other income determinations which are reasonably similar with
respect to methods of calculation to those previously published by HUD and the
State.
1.23. "Mortgage Loan" shall mean any of the following loans secured by a
mortgage or deed of trust on the Project:
(a) The Loan evidenced by the Note and the balance of the Loan Documents.
(b) Any other loan secured by a mortgage or deed of trust on the Project, either
senior or junior to the Loan.
1.24. "Mortgage Loan Documents" shall mean all documents executed by the
Borrower endorsing or securing a Mortgage Loan.
1.25. “Mortgagee" shall mean the mortgagee or beneficiary under a mortgage or
a deed of trust executed in connection with a Mortgage Loan.
1.26. "Note" shall mean the promissory note in the principal amount of Loan
evidencing the monies borrowed by Borrower from the County.
1.27. "Operating Reserves" shall mean reserves maintained during the Qualified
Project period and funded out of Residual Receipts, loan advances, equity, or
other sources and set aside for taxes and assessments, insurance premiums,
operating expenses, and debt service. Operating Reserves shall not exceed the
amount required to pay three (3) months of operating expenses and three (3)
months of mandatory debt service.
1.28. "Parties" shall mean the County and the Borrower.
1.29. Partnership" shall mean [NAME OF PARTNERSHIP].
1.30. “Permanent Lender” shall mean the permanent lender designated by
Borrower and approved in advance by the County as the Permanent Lender for
the Project.
1.31. “Permitted Financing” shall have the meaning given in Recital 5.
1.32. “Plans and Specification” shall mean the final set of architectural,
structural, mechanical, electrical, grading, sewer, water, street and utility plans
and specifications for the Project, including all supplemental, amendments and
modifications.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 5
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
1.33. "Project" means collectively the Property and the structures and related
buildings and other improvements now or hereafter located on the Property from
time to time together with all fixtures and other property owned by the Borrower
and located on, or used in connection with, such buildings, structures and other
improvements.
1.34. "Property" means the real property legally described on Exhibit "A",
which is attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein, and all rights
and appurtenances thereunto appertaining.
1.35. "Qualified Project Period" shall mean the period beginning upon the
Conversion Date and ending on the date which is fifty-five (55) years after the
beginning of the Qualified Project Period.
1.36. “Qualified Tenant” or “Qualified Tenants” shall collectively mean the
individuals occupying the Restricted Units with the Adjusted Incomes more
particularly described in Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein.
The income of individuals shall be determined in a manner consistent with deter-
minations of lower income households under Section 8 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937, as amended (or, if such program is terminated, in a manner
consistent with such determinations under such program as is in effect
immediately before such termination). In no event, however, will the occupant of
a Restricted Unit be considered to be a Qualified Tenant if the occupant is a
student, and is not entitled to file a federal income tax return.
1.37. "Regulations" shall mean the Income Tax Regulations promulgated by the
United States Department of the Treasury pursuant to the Code from time to time.
1.38. "Regulatory Agreement" shall mean that certain Regulatory Agreement
and Declaration of Restrictive Covenants between the County and the Borrower
of even date herewith.
1.39. “Replacement Reserves” shall mean reserves maintained during the
Qualified Project period and funded out of Residual Receipts, loan advances,
equity, or other sources and set aside for replacement of roofing, furniture,
fixtures, equipment and other capital expenditures. The annual amount set aside
for Replacement Reserves shall not be more than four hundred dollars ($400) per
unit. Exceptions may be considered where required for continued feasibility of
projects with short-term rent subsidy commitments, or when required by other
funding agencies when approved in writing by the County.
1.40. "Request for Notice of Default" shall mean a request for notice of default
to be recorded against the Property in a form approved by the County.
1.41. “Residual Receipts” means, during the Qualified Project Period, the
Annual Project Revenue less (A) Annual Operating Expenses (as defined in the
Note), (B) obligated debt service on permanent loan(s) for the Project senior to
the County’s Loan approved in writing by the County at the closing of the Loan,
(C) payment obligations (e.g. partnership management fees, and deferred
developer fees) approved in writing by the County at the closing of the Loan, and
(D) scheduled deposits to reserves approved in writing by the County.
1.42. “Restricted Unit” or “Restricted Units” means the dwelling units in the
Project identified on Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein required
to be rented to, or held available for occupancy by, Qualified Tenants pursuant to
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 6
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
the terms, covenants and conditions of the Regulatory Agreement, this
Agreement, including, but not limited to, the rental restrictions and other matters
set forth in said Exhibit "B" and the other Loan Documents.
1.43. “Tax Credit Investor” shall mean the tax credit investor designated by
Borrower and approved in advance by the County as the Tax Credit Investor for
the Project.
1.44. “Term” shall mean the period of time commencing on the date of this
Agreement and ending with the last date of the Qualified Project Period, for a
total possible term of up to fifty-eight (58) years..
ARTICLE II
LOAN
2.1 Amount. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the County hereby
agrees to lend and the Borrower hereby agrees to borrow, the Loan, evidenced by the
Note, the proceeds of which shall be used to acquire the Property and upon fulfillment of
certain conditions, as set forth herein, to permanently finance the Project and for the other
purposes set forth herein.
2.2 Repayment of Loan. Borrower shall repay the Loan, with interest, in
accordance with the provisions of the Note and this Agreement. Except as otherwise
provided, all payments shall be applied first to interest and then to principal.
2.3 Prepayment. Borrower may pay the principal and any interest due the
County under the Note prior to or in advance of the time for payment thereof as provided
in the Note, without penalty; provided, however, that Borrower acknowledges that in the
event the Conversion Date occurs the provisions of this Agreement and the Regulatory
Agreement will be applicable to the Project throughout the Qualified Project Period
even though Borrower may have prepaid the Note.
2.4 Assumption. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.7 hereof, the Note
shall not be assumable by successors and assigns of Borrower, either voluntarily or by
operation of law, without the prior written discretionary consent of the County and any
such assignment or assumption without said prior consent of the County shall be void.
2.5 Loan Disbursement. Upon satisfaction of the conditions to disbursement
set forth in Section 4.1 below and pursuant to the disbursement procedures set forth in
Section 4.2 below, the County, through the approved Escrowholder, will cause the
disbursement of the Loan as provided for in Section 4.2.
2.6 Security for Loan. The Loan shall be secured by the Deed of Trust,
Regulatory Agreement, the Financing Statement, Assignment of Leases and the Request
for Notice of Default.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 7
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
2.7 Approval of Additional Financing. Except as to the Permitted Financing
and as otherwise described herein, the Borrower shall not place or permit (either
voluntarily or involuntarily) to be placed any encumbrances, including, but not limited to
any additional liens or financing of any kind on the Project without the prior written
discretionary consent of the County.
2.8 Subordination of Deed of Trust.
The County agrees that the Deed of Trust may be subordinate to the lien of
a permanent loan secured by a Senior Construction/Permanent Deed of Trust (and any
refinancing of said permanent loan secured by the Senior Construction/Permanent Deed
of Trust) securing financing in an amount not to exceed $[XXX,XXX] so long as (i) the
documentation for said loan is approved by the County and (ii) said loan is otherwise
provided for and approved by the County in the Financing Plan. Any other financing,
refinancing or encumbrance of the Project is prohibited without the County’s prior
written consent which consent the County may arbitrarily withhold in the exercise of its
discretion
In order to affect the subordinations described above and elsewhere in this
Agreement, the County and Borrower agree to execute and acknowledge for recordation
a subordination agreement (in a form acceptable to the County) in favor of the senior
lender, as requested by such senior lender.
ARTICLE III
RENTAL RESTRICTIONS DURING THE
QUALIFIED PROJECT PERIOD
3.1 Use and Rent Restrictions.
(a) During the Qualified Project Period, the Project shall be “Affordable” as
defined in 24 CFR Part 92.252 and in compliance with County policies associated with
the 2023 NOFA for a period of not less than fifty-five (55) years.
(b) In accordance with the provisions of the Regulatory Agreement, this Loan
Agreement and Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein, the Borrower has
agreed to rent the Restricted Units of the Project to Qualified Tenants for the Qualified
Project Period at the rents described in said Exhibit “B.”
(c) Borrower agrees to provide to Qualified Tenants notice of all rent
increases pursuant to applicable California law.
(d) Borrower agrees to limit rent increases to (i) the Department of Housing
and Urban Development’s (HUD) annually published Rent Adjustment factor for the
Section 8 program, or (ii) no more than the rent established as affordable based on the
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 8
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
Median Income for the Area and the affordability restrictions set forth in Exhibit “B”,
which is adjusted annually by HUD and published by the State of California.
3.2 Income Determination. For the purposes of this section, the income of
individuals and families and the area median gross income shall be determined in a
manner consistent with determinations of lower income families and the Median Income
for the Area under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended (or, if
such program is terminated, in a manner consistent with such determinations under such
program as is in effect immediately before such termination). Determinations under the
preceding sentence shall include adjustments for household size.
3.3 Certifications. With respect to those Restricted Units subject to the rental
restrictions described above, during the Qualified Project Period the Borrower will
comply with the Qualified Tenant certifications and recertifications in the same manner
as prescribed under the Regulatory Agreement. Said certifications and recertifications
shall include, but not be limited to, client name, address, and verifiable income level (as
documented by income tax returns, employee payroll records, retirement statements, etc.
or other third party documentation approved by the County for determining eligibility).
Such information shall be made available to County monitors, or their designees, for
review upon request.
3.4 Records.
(a) The Borrower will maintain complete and accurate records as required by
Federal Regulations specified in 24 CFR 92.508, which shall contain a description of
each activity undertaken, records pertaining to the Restricted Units, records documenting
compliance with fair housing and equal opportunity components, financial records as
required by 24 CFR 92.508 (a)(5), other records to document compliance with Subpart K
of 24 CFR 92, and records documenting the continued affordability and income
restrictions outlined in Exhibit “B”.
(b) The Borrower will permit any duly authorized representatives of the
County to inspect and copy the books and records of the Borrower pertaining to the
Project, including those books and records pertaining to the occupancy of the Restricted
Units provided that the County will make a reasonable effort to provide notice of at least
forty-eight (48) hours to inspect, examine, or make copies of such information.
(c) Borrower will retain such records for a period of five (5) years after the
termination of all activities funded under this Agreement.
3.5 Leases. Each lease pertaining to a Restricted Unit shall contain provisions
to the effect that the Borrower has relied on the income certification and supporting
information supplied by the Qualified Tenant in determining qualification for occupancy
of the Restricted Unit, and that any material misstatement in such certification (whether
or not intentional) will be cause for immediate termination of such lease. County reserve
the right to require additional non-financial terms or clauses that are reasonably related to
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 9
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
such qualifications (including, but not limited to additional disclosure clauses) that the
County may from time to time deem appropriate or necessary to be included in said
leases.
ARTICLE IV
DISBURSEMENT OF LOAN
4.1 Conditions Precedent to Disbursement of Loan Proceeds. The County
shall cause Loan proceeds to be disbursed through escrow to the Borrower as set forth in
this Article IV. No disbursement shall be made until all of the following conditions
precedent are satisfied:
(a) Execution and Delivery of Documents. Borrower shall have executed and
delivered to the County (i) this Agreement, the Note, the Deed of Trust, the Financing
Statement, the Regulatory Agreement, and the Assignment of Leases, (ii) all resolutions
and certificates necessary or appropriate in the opinion of the County to evidence the
Borrower's authority to enter into the Loan and be bound by the Loan Documents, and
(iii) all other documents and instruments required by the County to be executed and
delivered, all in form and substance satisfactory to the County.
(b) Insurance. Borrower shall have furnished the County with certificates of
insurance for all policies required under this Agreement.
(c) Phase One Environmental Assessment Report. Borrower shall have
provided the County with a Phase One Environmental Assessment Report on the Property
prepared by a licensed and registered environmental engineer or other qualified party
satisfactory to County, along with any other information the County may require, in each
case stating that no hazardous substances are present in, on, under or around the Property
and that no condition or circumstances warranting further investigation now exists.
(d) Notice of Completion; Compliance with Applicable Requirements; Senior
Permanent Loan Conversion Conditions Precedent The Borrower shall have submitted to
the County and the County shall have approved the recorded Notice of Completion, the
final certificate of occupancy and evidence that the Property and its intended use are in
compliance with all applicable building, zoning and other requirements of applicable
public authorities.
(e) Financing Plan. The Borrower shall have submitted and the County shall
have approved the Borrower's plan for the permanent financing of the Project ("Financ-
ing Plan").
(f) Management Plan. The Borrower shall have submitted and the County
shall have approved a Management Plan ("Management Plan"). The Management Plan
shall include a management contract with a manager approved in writing by the County
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 10
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
for management of the Project and a plan for long-term marketing, operation,
maintenance, repair and security of the Project, method of selection of tenants, and for
rental policies in compliance with any applicable requirements, policies and procedures
and with the Regulatory Agreement, along with any other policies or procedures required
by the County. The Management Plan shall also include an initial budget for the Project.
(g) Mechanic’s Liens. The Borrower shall have submitted to County for
County approval evidence that all construction costs have been paid in full and that the
period for filing of mechanic’s liens has expired without the filing of any lien.
(h) As-Built Survey. Borrower shall have delivered and the County shall have
approved a final, as-built ALTA survey for the Project showing the location of all
improvements in and to the Project as well as (i) all “setbacks” and other restrictions
applicable to the Project pursuant to requirements of applicable public authorities (ii) all
easements, licenses and other rights of way, (iii) shows no encroachments onto the
Project or from the Project onto adjoining property and (iv) certifies the legal description
of the Project as insured in the title policy.
(i) Title Policy. Borrower shall, at its sole expense, have delivered to County
an ALTA loan policy-2006, with ALTA endorsement Form 1 coverage, amended 6/1/87,
without further revision or amendment, issued by an insurer satisfactory to County,
together with an unconditional CLTA 100 endorsement, a CLTA 103.7 endorsement, a
CLTA 116.1 endorsement, an ALTA Form 8.1 endorsement and all other endorsements
and binders required by County, naming County as the insured, in a policy amount of not
less than the Loan, showing Borrower as the owner of the Project and insuring the Deed
of Trust to be a valid [LIEN PRIORITY] lien on the Project, subject only to those
exceptions approved by the County in Section 2.8 above.
(j) Recordation. The Regulatory Agreement, Deed of Trust, Assignment of
Leases and Financing Statement shall have been recorded, in that order, in the Official
Records of Orange County.
(k) Senior Acquisition Deed of Trust. The Mortgage Loan Documents for the
first trust deed permanent Mortgage Loan shall have been recorded in such order as
directed by the said senior first trust deed lender.
(l) No Default. There shall exist no condition, event or act which would
constitute an Event of Default (as hereinafter defined) hereunder or which, upon the
giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
(m) Representations and Warranties. All representations and warranties of
Borrower herein contained shall be true and correct.
(n) Availability of Funds. The Borrower has submitted to the County and the
County has approved in the exercise of its discretion evidence that the funds identified as
committed to the acquisition of the Property in the approved Financing Plan to be
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 11
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
available on the Conversion Date are in fact unconditionally and readily available to
Borrower for the Property as of the Close of Escrow.
(o) Priority of Regulatory Agreement. The Regulatory Agreement has been
executed and recorded as a lien senior to the Deed of Trust.
4.2 Procedure for Disbursement of Loan Proceeds. When all the conditions to
disbursement have been satisfied, the County shall deposit the Loan with the
Escrowholder for disbursement upon the Close of Escrow with the Permanent Lender in
accordance with the terms of separate written escrow instructions between the County
and Borrower. Said agreement shall be deposited into escrow.
4.3 Waiver; Termination. No waiver of any of the conditions to the Close of
Escrow and disbursement of the Loan shall be permitted unless agreed to in writing by
the Director. If any of the conditions to disbursement of the Loan are not satisfied within
[X] (X) months following the date of this Agreement, County may terminate this Agree-
ment by the Director giving written notice to Borrower. Upon such termination, the
parties shall have no further rights or obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
LEASES
5.1 Standard Form Leases. On or before the commencement of the Qualified
Project Period, Borrower shall submit to County for its written approval a standard form
of residential lease to be used for leasing of the Project (the “Standard Lease”). The
Standard Lease shall be in compliance with all applicable laws and Borrower shall be
obligated to revise said Standard Lease from time to time to comply with any changes in
said applicable laws.
5.2 Leasing Program. Borrower shall market and lease the Project consistent
with the Marketing Plan described in Section 7.8 hereof.
5.3 Pro-Forma Schedules. Attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit
“B” is the rental rate schedule for the Units at the Project approved by County.
5.4 No Changes. Borrower shall not materially modify the approved Standard
Lease or materially deviate from the approved rental rate schedule for the Units without
the County’s prior written consent in each instance, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.
5.5 Landlord’s Obligations. Borrower shall timely and in good faith, perform
all obligations required to be performed by it as landlord under any lease affecting any
part of the Project or any space within the Project. If any tenant at any time claims any
breach of landlord’s obligations and the amount of such claim (in excess of available
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 12
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
insurance coverage) is $10,000 or more, Borrower shall promptly notify County of such
claim.
ARTICLE VI
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF BORROWER
6.1 Representations and Warranties. Borrower hereby makes the following
representations and warranties to the County, each of which shall also be deemed a
covenant and all of the following, Borrower agrees, shall continue to be true and accurate
in all material respects so long as the Loan or any portion thereof remains outstanding:
(a) Organization. Borrower is duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the laws of the State of California and has the power and authority to own
its property and carry on its business as now being conducted. The copies of the
documents evidencing the organization of Borrower delivered to the County are true and
correct copies of the originals, as amended to the date of this Agreement, and Borrower
will promptly provide the County with copies of any modifications thereto.
(b) Authority of Borrower. Borrower has full power and authority to execute
and deliver this Agreement and to make and accept the borrowings contemplated
hereunder, to execute and deliver the Loan Documents and all other documents or
instruments executed and delivered, or to be executed and delivered, pursuant to this
Agreement, and to perform and observe the terms and provisions of all of the above.
(c) Authority of Persons Executing Documents. This Agreement and the
Loan Documents and all other documents or instruments executed and delivered, or to be
executed and delivered, pursuant to this Agreement have been executed and delivered by
persons who are duly authorized to execute and deliver the same for and on behalf of
Borrower, and all actions required under Borrower's organizational documents and
applicable governing law for the authorization, execution, delivery and performance of
this Agreement and the Loan Documents and all other documents or instruments exe-
cuted and delivered, or to be executed and delivered, pursuant to this Agreement, have
been duly taken.
(d) Valid Binding Agreements. This Agreement and the Loan Documents and
all other documents or instruments which have been executed and delivered pursuant to
or in connection with this Agreement constitute or, if not yet executed or delivered, will
when so executed and delivered constitute, legal, valid and binding obligations of
Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
(e) No Breach of Law or Agreement. Neither the execution nor delivery of
this Agreement and the Loan Documents or of any other documents or instruments
executed and delivered, or to be executed or delivered, pursuant to this Agreement, nor
the performance of any provision, condition, covenant or other term hereof or thereof,
will conflict with or result in a breach of any statute, rule or regulation, or any judgment,
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 13
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
decree or order of any court, board, commission or agency whatsoever binding on
Borrower and in effect at the time of execution of this Agreement, or any provision of the
organizational documents of Borrower or, if applicable, of its constituent partners, or will
conflict with or constitute a breach of or a default under any agreement to which
Borrower, or, if applicable, its constituent partners, is a party, or will result in the creation
or imposition of any lien upon any assets or property of Borrower, other than liens estab-
lished pursuant hereto.
(f) Pending Proceedings. Borrower is not in default under any law or
regulation or under any order of any court, board, commission or agency whatsoever, and
there are no claims, actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of
Borrower, threatened against Borrower or the Property or Project, at law or in equity,
before or by any court, board, commission or agency whatsoever which might, if
determined adversely to Borrower, materially affect Borrower's ability to repay the Loan
or impair the security to be given to the County pursuant hereto.
(g) Compliance with Laws; Consents and Approvals. The Project shall
comply at all times with all applicable laws (including but not limited to all Hazardous
Substances Laws), ordinances, rules and regulations of federal, state, and local govern-
ments and agencies, and with all applicable directions, rules and regulations of the fire
marshal, health officer, building inspector, and other officers of any such government or
agency. All consents, permissions and licenses required by any federal, state, or local
government or agency to which the Borrower, the Property or the Project is subject,
which may be necessary in relation to this Agreement or the ownership or operation of
the Project, have been or will be obtained.
(h) Financial Statements. The financial statements of the Borrower and its
constituent partners, if any, and other financial data and information furnished by the
Borrower for review by the County relating to the financial condition of Borrower or any
of Borrower’s constituent partners or the Project, fairly present the information contained
therein. As of the date of Loan disbursement, there will not have been any adverse
material change in the financial condition of the Borrower or its constituent partners from
that shown by such financial statements and other data and information.
(i) Adequacy of Loan. The amount of the Loan, together with any funds to
be provided by the Borrower or to the Borrower from any other sources, is adequate to
pay all costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Property and to enable the
Borrower to satisfy the covenants contained in this Agreement.
(j) Payment of Taxes. All federal, state, county, and municipal taxes required
to be paid by the Borrower or on account of the Property have been paid in full as of the
date of this Agreement or will be paid in full by the Close of Escrow. Borrower knows of
no basis for any additional assessment of taxes as of this date.
(k) Regulatory Agreement. The Project is, and will at all times remain, in
compliance with all requirements of this Agreement and the Regulatory Agreement. The
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 14
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
units in the Project shall be rented or available for rental on a basis which satisfies the
requirements of the Regulatory Agreement. All leases will comply with all applicable
laws and the Regulatory Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
CONTINUING OBLIGATIONS OF BORROWER
7.1 Applicability. For the longer of the entire Term, or so long as the Note
remains outstanding, the Borrower shall comply with the provisions of this Article VII.
7.2 Compliance with Loan Documents. Borrower shall promptly comply with
all the terms, covenants and provisions of the Loan Documents.
7.3 Taxes and Assessments. So long as Borrower owns the Property and the
Project, Borrower shall pay all real and personal property taxes, assessments and charges,
and all franchise, income, unemployment, old age benefit, withholding, sales, and other
taxes assessed against it, or payable by it, at such times and in such manner as to prevent
any delinquency or penalty from accruing, or any lien or charge from attaching to the
Project; provided, however, that Borrower shall have the right to contest in good faith any
such taxes, assessments, or charges. In the event Borrower exercises its right to contest
any tax, assessment, or charge against it, Borrower, on final determination of the
proceeding or contest, shall immediately pay or discharge any decision or judgment
rendered against it, together with all costs, charges, and interest.
7.4 Indemnity.
(a) To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower agrees to indemnify,
hold harmless and defend the County and its elected officials, officers, governing
members, employees, attorneys and agents (collectively, the "Indemnified Parties"), from
and against any and all losses, damages, claims, actions, liabilities, reasonable costs and
expenses of any and every conceivable nature, kind or character (including, without
limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees, litigation and court costs, amounts paid in
settlement and amounts paid to discharge judgments) to which the Indemnified Parties, or
any of them, may become subject to under any statutory law (including federal or state
securities laws) or at common law or otherwise, arising out of or based upon or in any
way relating to:
1. the Loan Documents or the execution or amendment thereof or in
connection with the transactions contemplated thereby;
2. Borrower’s ownership or operation of the Project or any act or
omission of the Borrower or any of its agents, contractors, servants, employees or
licensees in connection with the Loan or the Project, the operation of the Project, or the
condition, environmental or otherwise, occupancy, use, possession, conduct or
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 15
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
management of work done in or about, or from the planning, design, acquisition,
installation, operation or rehabilitation of, the Project or any part thereof;
3. any lien or charge upon payments by the Borrower to the
County, or any taxes (including, without limitation, all ad valorem taxes and sales taxes),
assessments, impositions and other charges imposed on the County in respect
of any portion of the Project;
4. any violation of any environmental law, rule or regulation with
respect to, or the release of any toxic substance from, the Project or any part thereof;
5. any untrue statement or misleading statement or alleged untrue
statement or alleged misleading statement of a material fact by the Borrower contained in
any Loan Document or any of the documents or instruments relating to said Loan
Documents that the County relied upon in making the Loan except to the extent such
damages are caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified
Party. In the event that any action or proceeding is brought against any Indemnified Party
with respect to which indemnity may be sought hereunder, the Borrower, upon written
notice from the Indemnified Party, shall assume the investigation and defense thereof,
including the employment and payment for counsel selected by the Indemnified Party,
and shall assume the payment of all reasonable expenses related thereto, with full power
to litigate, compromise or settle the same; provided that the Indemnified Party shall have
the right to review and approve or disapprove any such compromise or settlement.