CLAUSE 6: I
============================================================
Type: duration
Risk Level: high
Word Count: 8842
------------------------------------------------------------

f judgment is entered against Borrower and County by a court of
competent jurisdiction because of the concurrent active negligence of County or
Indemnified Parties, Borrower and County agree that liability will be apportioned as
determined by the court. Neither Party shall request a jury apportionment.
7.5 Entry by the County. Borrower shall permit the County, through its
officers, agents, or employees, at all reasonable times to enter into or onto the Property or
the Project and inspect the Project to determine that the same is in conformity with the
Loan Documents and all the requirements hereof. Borrower acknowledges that the
County is under no obligation to supervise, inspect, or inform Borrower of the results of
its said inspection(s) and Borrower shall not rely upon the County therefor. Any
inspection by the County is entirely for its purposes in determining whether Borrower is
in default under this Agreement or the Loan Documents. Borrower shall rely entirely
upon its own supervision and inspection.
7.6 Hazardous Materials. Borrower shall indemnify, defend and hold
harmless the County, and its respective elected and appointed officials, members,
directors, officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns from and against any loss,
damage, cost, expense or liability directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to the
use, generation, storage, release, threatened release, discharge, disposal, or presence of
hazardous materials on, under, or about the Project, including without limitation: (a) all
foreseeable consequential damages; (b) the costs of any required or necessary repair,
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 16
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
cleanup or detoxification of the Project and the preparation and implementation of any
closure, remedial or other required plans; and (c) all reasonable costs and expenses
incurred by the County or County in connection with clauses (a) and (b), including but
not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees.
7.7 Transfers. During the Term, Borrower shall not sell or otherwise transfer
the Project or any portion thereof, and none of the constituent general partners of
Borrower shall sell or otherwise transfer their interests in Borrower, and none of the
constituent general partners in a partnership that is a partner in Borrower shall sell or
otherwise transfer their interest in such partnership without first obtaining the approval of
the County, which consent the County may withhold or grant in the exercise of its good
faith discretion. The County shall not approve any such transfer request if the Borrower
is in default under any of the Loan Documents or the Management Plan.
7.8 Management; Annual Marketing and Management Plans. Any
management company of the Project and the management agreement with such
management company shall be subject to the prior written approval of the County. The
management agreement shall not be amended, modified, supplemented, terminated or
canceled without the prior written consent of the County. Borrower and the County (if it
so elects) will cooperate in the marketing of the units on the Property pursuant to a
marketing plan (the “Marketing Plan”) prepared by the Borrower and approved by the
County. Said Marketing Plan and the Management Plan described in Section 4.1 hereof
shall be prepared by the Borrower and approved by the County on an annual basis;
however, the Borrower shall provide quarterly written supplements to said approved
plans (or more frequently if requested by the County).
7.9 Operation and Maintenance of Project.
(a) Operation. During the Qualified Project Period, Borrower shall at all
times operate on the Project an affordable housing rental facility in compliance with this
Agreement and the Regulatory Agreement.
(b) Maintenance. During the Qualified Project Period, Borrower agrees to
maintain all interior and exterior improvements, including landscaping (and all abutting
ground, sidewalks, roads, parking and landscape areas) on the Project in good condition,
repair and sanitary condition (and, as to landscaping, in a healthy condition) and in
accordance with any Management Plan approved by the County under the Loan
Agreement (including without limitation any landscape and signage plans), as the same
may be amended from time to time, and all other applicable laws, rules, ordinances,
orders, and regulations of all federal, state, county, municipal, and other governmental
agencies and bodies having jurisdiction and all their respective departments, bureaus, and
officials. Borrower acknowledges the great emphasis the County places on quality
maintenance to protect its investment and to provide quality low-income housing for its
constituents and to ensure that all County-subsidized affordable housing projects within
the County are not allowed to deteriorate due to deficient maintenance. In addition,
Borrower shall keep the Project free from all graffiti and any accumulation of debris or
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 17
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
waste material. Borrower shall promptly make all repairs and replacements necessary to
keep the Project in good condition and repair and shall promptly eliminate all graffiti and
replace dead and diseased plants and landscaping with comparable approved materials.
Borrower shall not commit or permit any waste or deterioration of the Project, shall not
abandon any portion of the Project, and shall not otherwise act, or fail to act, in such a
way as to unreasonably increase the risk of damage to the Project.
In the event that Borrower breaches any of the covenants contained in this Section
9.9 and such default continues for a period of five (5) days after written notice from
County (with respect to graffiti, debris, waste material, and general maintenance) or thirty
(30) days after written notice from County (with respect to landscaping and building
improvements), then County, in addition to whatever other remedies it may have under
this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or at law or in equity, shall have the right to
enter upon the Project and perform or cause to be performed all such acts and work
necessary to cure the default. Pursuant to such right of entry, the County shall be permit-
ted (but not required) to enter upon the Project and perform all acts and work necessary to
protect, maintain and preserve the improvements and landscaped areas on the Project, in
the amount of the expenditure arising from such acts and work of protection,
maintenance, and preservation by County and/or reasonable costs of such cure, including
a fifteen percent (15%) administrative charge, which amount shall be promptly paid by
Borrower to County upon demand.
(c) Removal of Personal Property. During the Qualified Project Period,
Borrower shall not cause or permit the removal from the Project of any items of
Borrower’s personal property (other than tools and equipment used in the operation of the
Project) unless (i) no Event of Default remains uncured and (ii) Borrower promptly
substitutes and installs on the Project other items of equal or greater value in the
operation of the Project, all of which shall be free of liens and shall be subject to the liens
of the Deed of Trust and the Financing Statement and executes and delivers to County all
documents required by County in connection with the attachment of such liens to such
items. Borrower shall keep detailed records of such removal and shall make such records
available to County upon written request from time to time.
7.10 Status of Borrower. Borrower shall at all times maintain its legal status
and all material licenses, rights, franchises and privileges in the jurisdiction of its
formation in good standing and comply with all laws, rules and regulations of California
and the United States and of any political subdivision thereof applicable to it or its
business.
7.11 Insurance. While any obligation of Borrower under any Loan Document
remains outstanding, Borrower shall maintain at Borrower's sole expense, the following
policies of insurance in form and substance as follows:
(a) Commercial General Liability insurance in an amount not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate;
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 18
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
(b) Commercial Auto Liability insurance covering all owned, non-owned and
hired autos with a limit of $1,000,000 per occurrence);
(c) Statutory Workers' compensation insurance and Employer’s Liability with
a minimum limit of $1,000,000 per occurrence (amounts subject to change to ensure
proper coverage);
(d) Commercial Property Insurance on an “All Risk” or “Special Causes of
Loss” form for 100% of the Replacement Cost Value and no coinsurance provision.
(including insurance against loss by flood if the Project is located in an area now or
hereafter designated as subject to the danger of flood, but excluding insurance against
loss by earthquake);
(e) Rent loss insurance for a period of at least one year;
(f) The Commercial Property policy, shall include a "lender's loss payable
endorsement" to the County assuring County that all proceeds shall be paid to County as
provided in the Deed of Trust subject to the interests of the senior lenders on the Project.
The County shall be an additional named insured on the Commercial General Liability
policy, and such insurance shall be primary and any insurance maintained by the County
shall be excess and non-contributing. All policies shall waive all rights of subrogation
against the County, its elected and appointed officials, officers, agents, and employees.
The general liability policy shall contain a severability of interests clause. Certificates of
insurance and endorsements for all of the above policies (and/or original policies, if
required by the County from time to time), showing the same to be in full force and
effect, shall be delivered to the County;
(g) All self-insured retentions (SIRs) shall be clearly stated on the Certificate
of Insurance. Any self-insured retention (SIR) in an amount in excess of Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($50,000) shall specifically be approved by the County’s Risk Manager, or
designee, upon review of Borrower’s current audited financial report. If Borrower’s SIR
is approved, Borrower, in addition to, and without limitation of, any other indemnity
provision(s) in this Contract, agrees to all of the following:
1. In addition to the duty to indemnify and hold the County harmless
against any and all liability, claim, demand or suit resulting from
Borrower, its agents, employee’s or subcontractor’s performance of
this Contract, Borrower shall defend the County at its sole cost and
expense with counsel approved by Board of Supervisors against
same; and
2. Borrower’s duty to defend, as stated above, shall be absolute and
irrespective of any duty to indemnify or hold harmless; and
3. The provisions of California Civil Code Section 2860 shall apply to
any and all actions to which the duty to defend stated above applies,
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 19
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
and the Borrower’s SIR provision shall be interpreted as though the
Borrower was an insurer and the County was the insured.
Upon notice of any actual or alleged claim or loss arising out of
subcontractor’s work hereunder, subcontractor shall immediately satisfy in full the SIR
provisions of the policy in order to trigger coverage for the Borrower and Additional
Insureds.
If the Borrower fails to maintain insurance acceptable to the County for
the full term of this Contract, the County may terminate this Contract.
7.12 Alterations and Repair. Except with the prior consent of the County,
during the Qualified Project Period, Borrower shall not remove, demolish or materially
alter any improvement constituting the Project, except to make non-structural repairs
which preserve or increase the Project’s value, and shall promptly restore, in good and
workmanlike manner, any said improvement (or other aspect of the Project) that is
damaged or destroyed from any cause.
7.13 Changes in Property Restrictions. Borrower shall not initiate, join in or
consent to any change in any applicable zoning ordinance, general plan or similar law, or
to any private restrictive covenant or any similar public or private restriction on the use of
the Project, except with the prior written consent of the County.
7.14 Books, Records and Annual Statement. Borrower shall maintain complete
books of account and other records reflecting the construction and operation of the
Project in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a
consistent basis. During the Qualified Project Period, the amount of the Residual
Receipts (as defined in the Note) shall be determined on the basis of an annual audited
financial statement (”Annual Statement”), for the preceding year, beginning with the first
year of operation of all or any part of the Project, prepared at the Borrower’s expense by
an independent certified public account firm acceptable to the County. Such Annual
Statement shall be prepared based on the guidelines, and taking into account the
information, set forth on Exhibit “C,” attached hereto and incorporated herein. During
the Qualified Project Period, the Borrower shall submit the Annual Statement and any
payment to the County not later than six (6) months after closing of the Borrower’s
previous year’s books. The first Annual Statement submitted by the Borrower for the
Loan shall include the period from the Completion of Construction to the close of that
year’s books. The County shall review and approve such statement, or request revisions,
within ninety (90) days after receipt. In the event that as the result of County review,
there is an increase in the amount of Residual Receipts, Borrower shall pay to the County
the full amount of such increase within ten (10) days of notice of such increases. The
terms of this subsection shall not be the exclusive method by which the County may
review Residual Receipts payments by the Borrower. In the event that an increase in the
amount of Residual Receipts for any annual period is discovered at any time subsequent
to the ninety (90) day period for that year’s books, no previous action or inaction by the
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 20
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
County shall prohibit the County from requesting repayment of those amounts at any
time during the term of this Agreement or thereafter. The Borrower shall pay to the
County the full amount of such increase within thirty (30) days of notice of such increase
for periods prior to the previous year.
7.15 Notices of Certain Matters. Borrower shall give notice to County, within
ten (10) days after Borrower receives actual knowledge thereof, of each of the following:
(a) Any litigation or claim against the Borrower relating to the Property or the
Project and involving an amount in excess of $25,000 and any litigation or claim that
might subject Borrower or any constituent partner of Borrower to liability in excess of
$50,000, whether covered by insurance or not;
(b) Any dispute between Borrower and any governmental or public agency
relating to the Property or the Project, the adverse determination of which might
materially affect the Project;
(c) Any trade name hereafter used by Borrower and any change in Borrower’s
principal place of business;
(d) Any Event of Default or event, which, with the giving of notice or the
passage of time, without ameliorative action, or both, would constitute an Event of
Default;
(e) Any default by Borrower or any other party under any Loan Document or
Mortgage Document, or the receipt by Borrower of any notice of default under any Loan
Document or Mortgage Document;
(f) The creation or imposition of any mechanics’ lien or other lien against the
Project;
(g) The presence of any hazardous materials on, under or about the Property
or the Project; any enforcement, clean-up, removal or other action or requirement of any
local, state or federal governmental or quasi-governmental authority with jurisdiction
relating to any such hazardous materials; and the existence of any occurrence of
conditions on any property in the vicinity of the Project that could cause any portion of
the Project to be classified as “border-zone property” under the provisions of the
California Health and Safety Code or any related regulations, or that could cause the
Project to be otherwise subject to any restrictions relating to hazardous materials; and
(h) Any material adverse change in the financial condition of Borrower or any
of its constituent general partners.
7.16 Further Assurances. Borrower shall execute and acknowledge (or cause to
be executed and acknowledged) and deliver to County all documents, and take all
actions, reasonably required by County from time to time to confirm the rights created or
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 21
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
now or hereafter intended to be created under the Loan Documents, to protect and further
the validity, priority and enforceability of the Loan Documents, to subject to the Loan
Documents any property intended by the terms of any Loan Document to be covered by
the Loan Documents, or otherwise to carry out the purpose of the Loan Documents and
the transactions contemplated thereunder.
7.17 Liens. Borrower shall not cause or suffer to become effective any lien,
restriction or other title limitation affecting any part of the Project other than the (i)
Regulatory Agreement, the Deed of Trust, the Financing Statement and the liens of the
Permitted Financing and (ii) taxes not delinquent.
7.18 Payment of Expenses. Borrower shall pay the County's costs and
expenses incurred in connection with the making, disbursement and administration of the
Loan, as well as any revisions, transfers, extensions, renewals, modifications, refinancing
or "workouts," and providing estoppels or subordinations of the Loan, and in the exercise
of any of County's rights or remedies under this Agreement. The County will receive
from Borrower a nonrefundable fee in the amount of Five Hundred Dollars ($500) and
Borrower shall reimburse County for all of the County’s reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses (including reasonable attorney’s fees) incurred in the administration and review
of such changes, to the extent such expenses exceed Five Hundred Dollars ($500). Such
costs and expenses may include title insurance, recording and escrow charges, survey
charges, hazard insurance, premiums, fees for any appraisals and any appraisal reviews,
architectural and engineering review, construction services and environmental and toxic
services and reviews, zoning and entitlement services and reviews, mortgage taxes, legal
fees and any other reasonable fees and costs for services, regardless of whether such
services are furnished by the County's employees or agents or independent contractors.
7.19 Loan Monitoring Fees. Unless prohibited by Federal, State or local laws,
the Borrower shall pay an annual loan monitoring fee during the Term. Loan monitoring
fees shall be incorporated into the operating pro forma. The loan monitoring fee shall
include a one time payment (“One Time Payment”) of Five Hundred Dollars ($500) to
be used for project set-up plus an annual fee (“Annual Fee”) of [AMOUNT] ($XXX),
which will be used to offset the reasonable costs associated with loan monitoring. The
initial One Time Payment fee and initial Annual Fee will be payable to the County at the
Close of Escrow. The Annual Fee will be due each subsequent year for the Qualified
Project Period on or within thirty (30) days of the day and month that this Agreement was
entered into as set forth on page one hereof. Loan monitoring fees will be adjusted
annually. The annual adjustment shall be in accordance with the change in the Consumer
Price Index for Los Angeles –Anaheim - Riverside (All Urban Consumers – All Items)
promulgated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor. This
adjustment shall be calculated by means of the following formula:
A = B x C
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 22
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
Where: A = Adjusted Annual Fee
B = Annual Fee (as such Annual Fee may have been previously adjusted)
C = Average monthly index for the most recent twelve-month period
D = Average monthly index for the twelve-month period preceding the date of
this Loan Agreement.
In the event that the Consumer Price Index (CPI) ceases to use 1982-84 = 100 as the basis
of calculation, or if, in County’s sole judgment, a substantial change is made in the
method used by the federal government to determine the CPI or the items used to
calculate the CPI, then the CPI shall be converted to the figure that would have been
calculated at (or as close to such figures as shall be practical) had the manner of
calculating the CPI in effect at the date of this Loan Agreement not been altered.
In the event that the CPI is not issued or published for the period for which such
minimum Annual Fees are to be adjusted and computed hereunder, or in the even that the
Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor should cease to
publish said index figures, then any similar index published by any other branch or
department of the United States Government selected by County, shall be used and if
none is so published, then another index general recognized as authoritative shall be
substituted by County.
In the event that the Borrower is required to pay a monitoring fee or One-Time Payment
pursuant to this section any amounts paid towards the monitoring fee or One Time
Payment for the HOME/OTHER COUNTY Loan to the Borrower shall be credited to
the amount due under this section, such that the maximum monitoring fee and One-Time
Payment hereunder combined with the monitoring fee and One-Time Payment for the
HOME Loan shall not exceed $1215, as adjusted in accordance with this section.
[Omitted if HOME/OTHER COUNTY funding is not an additional award.]
7.20 Subcontracts.
(a) Upon request of County, or their designated agent, Borrower shall submit
any requested Subcontract agreements to the County for review and consent. Any
requested Subcontracts shall be submitted to County within forty-eight (48) hours of such
request.
(b) Borrower shall assume responsibility for all subcontracted services to
assure compliance with this Agreement.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 23
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
(c) Borrower shall cause all of the applicable provisions of this Agreement in
its entirety to be included in and made a part of any subcontract executed in the
performance of this Agreement.
7.21 Relocation. Borrower shall, if applicable, in all matters relating to the
Project:
(a) Take all reasonable steps to minimize displacement by providing tenants a
reasonable opportunity to lease and occupy dwelling units in the Project being improved,
if applicable;
(b) Submit to County a plan outlining financial and advisory assistance in
securing temporary housing for any eligible tenant who is temporarily or permanently
relocated due to the Project; and,
(c) Comply with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property
Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 and 49 CFR 24 in providing relocation assistance for
persons displaced by the Project.
(d) Have in effect, and follow a residential anti-displacement and relocation
plan required under Section 104 (d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of
1974, as amended, in conjunction with any activity assisted with funds under the subject
program.
7.22 HOME Requirements. The Borrower shall carry out the design,
construction and operation of the Project, and operate the Program, in conformity with all
applicable laws, regulations, and rules of governmental agencies having jurisdiction,
including without limitation, the HOME Requirements and the legal requirements set
forth in Exhibit No. [X] attached to this Agreement and the statutes referenced therein.
For purposes of this paragraph, “HOME Requirements” mean the requirements of the
HOME Investment Partnership Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. § 12741, et seq.), and the
implementing regulations (24 C.F.R. § 92, et seq.), and the legal requirements
summarized or referenced in Exhibit No. D attached hereto and incorporated herein by
this reference. [Intentionally Omitted if inapplicable.]
7.23 Mental Health Services Act Requirements. The Borrower shall carry out
the design, construction and operation of the Project, and operate the Program, in
conformity with all applicable laws, regulations, and rules of governmental agencies
having jurisdiction, including without limitation, the requirements set forth in California
Welfare and Institutions Code Section 5771.1 et. seq. and, without limitation, the
requirements found in Exhibit No. D attached to this Agreement. [Intentionally Omitted
if inapplicable.]
7.24 Housing Successor Agency/County and/or Project Based Voucher
Requirements. The Borrower shall carry out the design, construction and operation of the
Project, and operate the Program, in conformity with all applicable laws, regulations, and
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 24
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
rules of governmental agencies having jurisdiction, including without limitation, the
requirements set forth in state and federal law and, without limitation, the requirements
found in Exhibit No. D attached to this Agreement. [Intentionally Omitted if
inapplicable.]
7.25 Lender Recognition. The owner shall ensure recognition of the role of the
County in providing funds through this Agreement. All activities, facilities and items
utilized pursuant to the Agreement shall be prominently labeled as to funding source.
7.26 Child Support Enforcement Requirements.
(a) In order to comply with child enforcement requirements of the County,
within 30 days of the close of escrow, Borrower agrees to furnish to the County:
1. In the case of an individual Borrower, his/her name, date of birth,
Social Security number, and residence address;
2. In the case of an Borrower doing business in a form other than as
an individual, the name, date of birth, Social Security number, and residence address of
each individual who owns 10% or more of the Project;
3. A certification that the Borrower has fully complied with all
applicable federal and state reporting requirements regarding its employees; and,
4. A certification that the Borrower has fully complied with all
lawfully served Wage and Earnings Assignment Orders and Notices of Assignment and
will continue to comply.
(b) The certification will be stated as follows:
“I certify that (company name) is in full
compliance with all applicable federal and state reporting requirements for its employees
and with all lawfully served Wage and Earnings Assignment Orders and Notices of
Assignment and will continue to be in compliance throughout the Term of this Agreement
with the County of Orange. I understand that failure to comply shall constitute a
material breach of the Agreement and that failure to cure such breach within 60 calendar
days of notice from the County shall constitute grounds for termination of the Agreement
without costs to the County.”
It is expressly understood that this data will be transmitted to
government agencies charged with the establishment and enforcement of child support
orders and for no other purposes.
Failure of the contractor to timely submit the data and/or
certifications required above or to comply with all federal and state reporting
requirements for child support enforcement or to comply with all lawfully served Wage
and Earnings Assignments Orders and Notices of Assignment shall constitute a material
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 25
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
breach of the Agreement. Failure to cure such breach within 60 calendar days of notice
from the County shall constitute grounds for termination of this Agreement.
7.27 Labor Standards. To the extent applicable, the Borrower agrees to
comply with the requirements of the California Department of Industrial Relations
Prevailing Wage Requirements and the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the Davis-
Bacon Act as amended, the provisions of Contract Work Hours, the Safety Standards Act,
the Copeland “Anti-Kickback” Act (40 U.S.C. 276, 327-333) and all other applicable
federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to labor standards insofar as those
acts apply to the performance of this Agreement. The Borrower shall maintain
documentation, which demonstrates compliance with hour, and wage requirements of this
part. Such documentation shall be made available to the County for review upon request.
The Borrower agrees that, except with respect to the rehabilitation or construction of
residential property designed for residential use for less than twelve (12) units, all
contractors engaged under contracts in excess of $2,000.00 for construction, renovation
or repair of any building or work financed in whole or in part with assistance provided
under this Agreement, shall comply with federal requirements adopted by the County
pertaining to such contracts and with the applicable requirements of the regulations of the
U.S. Department of Labor, under 29 CFR, Parts 1, 3, 5, 7 and 1926 governing the
payment of wages and ratio of apprentices and trainees to journeymen; provided, that if
wage rates higher than those required under the regulations are imposed by state or local
law, nothing herein is intended to relieve the Borrower of its obligation, if any, to require
payment of the higher rate. The Borrower shall cause or require to be inserted in full, in
all such contracts subject to such regulations, provisions meeting the requirements of this
paragraph, for such contracts in excess of $10,000.00.
7.28 Section 92.252 Qualification as Affordable Housing and Income Targeting
Rental Housing.
The requirements of 24 CFR 92.252 are incorporated into this Agreement as if
fully set forth herein.
7.29 Section 92.253 Tenant and Participant Protections.
The requirement of 24 CFR 92.253 are incorporated into this Agreement as if
fully set forth herein.
7.30 Annual Audit.
Following the Conversion Date and commencing on the date six (6) months after
closing of the Borrower’s previous year’s books and every one year anniversary date
thereafter during the Term, Borrower shall submit to County the following audit
reporting package (the “Audit Reporting Package”). [If federal funds are awarded, said
Audit Reporting Package shall be in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.] County
reserves the right to revise the Audit Reporting Package requirements in accordance with
any revision to Federal, State or County rules, regulations, ordinances, laws and statutes.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 26
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
Unless otherwise required by 2 CFR part 200, the Audit Reporting Package shall include
the following:
(a) Financial Statements for the Project, preferably with a classified Balance
Sheet identifying Current Assets and Current Liabilities;
(b) [Schedule of expenditures of Federal awards;]
(c) Independent Auditor’s report;
(d) Summary schedule and prior audit findings, if applicable;
(e) Corrective action plan, if applicable;
(f) [SF-SAC (Single Audit Collection) Data Collection Form; and]
(g) Management Letter.
7.31 Operating Reserve
Borrower shall establish an interest bearing account to be known as the Operating
Reserve Account. Upon the Conversion Date shall deposit an amount into the Operating
Reserve Account sufficient to pay three (3) months of operating expenses and three (3)
months of mandatory debt service payments (“Target Balance”).
Funds shall be invested subject to the prior written approval of the County, which
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and any earnings shall become and remain a
part of the Operating Reserve. Funds may be drawn only when revenue is insufficient to
pay operating expenses. The Borrowers shall not draw funds from the Operating Reserve
Account without the prior written approval of the County, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
If the balance in the Operating Reserve Account falls below the amount required
to pay three (3) months of operating expenses and three (3) months of mandatory debt
service payments, then Borrower shall apply Residual Receipts, when and if available, or
other funds, to the replenishment of Operating Reserves until the Target Balance is
achieved.
In the event of a failure by the Borrower to pay operating expenses, mandatory
debt service payments, or other payments required under the Loan Documents or
Mortgage Loan Documents, or during the continuance of an event of default by Borrower
under the Loan Documents or Mortgage Loan Documents that would provide for the
acceleration of the Loan or Mortgage Loan, then County may, after delivery of notice to
Borrower and the expiration of any applicable cure periods, apply the funds in the
Operating Reserve Account to the Loan, a Mortgage Loan, or use such funds for the
continued operation of the Project.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 27
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
7.32 Replacement Reserve
At or before the Conversion Date, Borrower shall establish an interest bearing
account to be known as the Replacement Reserve Account. Annually prior to March 31
of each year, Borrower shall deposit into the Replacement Reserve Account an amount
equal to three hundred dollars ($XXX) per unit or such higher amount as may be required
by a tax creditor investor or senior Mortgagee and approved by County, which approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Funds shall be invested subject to the prior
written approval of the County and any earnings shall become and remain a part of the
Replacement Reserve. The Borrowers shall not draw funds from the Replacement
Reserve Account without the prior written approval of the County, which approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld.
Funds may only be drawn from the Replacement Reserve Account to replace or
maintain Project assets which have a useful life of more than one (1) year in accordance
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), and have been or will be
depreciated on the Partnership Tax Return, Form 1040P, filed with the Internal Revenue
Service by the Borrower’s accountant.
In the event of a failure by the Borrower to adequately maintain the Project, or
pay operating expenses, mandatory debt service payments, or other payments required
under the Loan Documents or Mortgage Loan Documents, or during the continuance of
an event of default by Borrower under the Loan Documents or Mortgage Loan
Documents that would provide for the acceleration of the Loan or Mortgage Loan, then
County may, after delivery of notice to Borrower and the expiration of any applicable
cure periods, apply the funds in the Replacement Reserve Account to the Loan, a
Mortgage Loan, or use such funds for the maintenance, improvement, or continued
operation of the Project.
ARTICLE VIII
DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
8.1 Events of Default. Each of the following shall constitute an "Event of
Default" by Borrower under this Agreement:
(a) Failure to Make Note Payments. Borrower fails to make any payment of
principal and/or interest under the Note when due, after ten (10) days notice from County.
Any payment that falls due on a non-business day may be made the next succeeding
business day without penalty and shall not be considered a past-due payment;
(b) Failure to Make Other Payments. Borrower fails to perform any other
obligation for the payment of money (other than payments described in subparagraph (a)
above) under any Loan Document within ten (10) days after County gives Borrower
written notice that such obligation was not performed or paid for;
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 28
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
(c) Non-Monetary Failure to Perform. Borrower fails to timely perform,
comply with or observe any of the terms, covenants, or conditions of this Agreement or
any other Loan Document (other than those provisions elsewhere referred to in this
Section 8.1) and such failure continues uncured or without Borrower commencing to dili-
gently cure for thirty (30) days after notice thereof in writing is given by the County to
Borrower, provided that if Borrower has commenced cure but cannot complete such cure
reasonably within thirty (30) days, Borrower shall have ninety (90) days from the date of
notice to cure such failure without such failure constituting an event of default;
(d) Mortgage Loan Document Breach. Any default or breach of Borrower
that continues uncured after the expiration of any applicable cure period under any other
loan document including, but not limited to, the Mortgage Loan Documents (including
but not limited to the Junior HSA Deed of Trust and any related documents);
(e) Voluntary Suspension. The voluntary suspension of Borrower's business
or the dissolution or termination of the partnership (if any) constituting Borrower;
(f) Unauthorized Transfer. Borrower’s sale or other transfer of the Property
or the Project in violation of Section 7.7 above;
(g) Fraud or Material Misstatement or Omissions. Any fraudulent act or
omission of Borrower's, or intentional misrepresentation of Borrower's, pertaining to or
made in connection with the Loan, Loan Documents or the Project;
(h) Insolvency. A court having jurisdiction shall have made or entered any
decree or order (i) adjudging Borrower to be bankrupt or insolvent, (ii) approving as
properly filed a petition seeking reorganization of Borrower or seeking any arrangement
for Borrower under the bankruptcy law or any other applicable debtor's relief law or
statute of the United States or any state or other jurisdiction, (iii) appointing a receiver,
trustee, liquidator, or assignee of Borrower in bankruptcy or insolvency or for any of their
properties, or (iv) directing the winding up or liquidation of Borrower, if any such decree
or order described in clauses (i) to (iv), inclusive, shall have continued unstayed or
undischarged for a period of ninety (90) days unless a lesser time period is permitted for
cure under any other mortgage on the Property, in which event such lesser time period
will apply under this subsection 8.1(h) as well; or Borrower shall have admitted in
writing its inability to pay its debts as they fall due or shall have voluntarily submitted to
or filed a petition seeking any decree or order of the nature described in clauses (i) to (iv),
inclusive. The occurrence of any of the events of default in this paragraph shall act to
accelerate automatically, without the need for any action by the County, the indebtedness
evidenced by the Note; or
(i) Project Monies. Borrower’s misapplication or embezzlement of Project
monies.
8.2 Remedies. The occurrence of any Event of Default shall, either at the
option of the County or automatically where so specified, relieve the County of any
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 29
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
obligation to make or continue the Loan and shall give the County the right to proceed
with any and all remedies set forth in this Agreement and the Loan Documents or
otherwise available at law or in equity or by statute (and all of the County's rights and
remedies shall be cumulative), including but not limited to the following:
(a) Acceleration of Note. The County shall have the right to cause all
indebtedness of the Borrower to the County under this Agreement and the Note, together
with any accrued interest thereon, to become immediately due and payable. The
Borrower waives all right to presentment, demand, protest or notice of protest, or
dishonor. The County may proceed to enforce payment of the indebtedness and to
exercise any or all rights afforded to the County as a creditor and secured party under the
law including the Uniform Commercial Code, including foreclosure under the Deed of
Trust. The Borrower shall be liable to pay the County on demand all expenses, costs and
fees (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and expenses) paid or incurred by the
County in connection with the collection of the Loan and the preservation, maintenance,
protection, sale, or other disposition of the security given for the Loan.
(b) Specific Performance. The County shall have the right to mandamus or
other suit, action or proceeding at law or in equity to require Borrower to perform its
obligations and covenants under the Loan Documents or to enjoin acts on things that may
be unlawful or in violation of the provisions of the Loan Documents.
(c) Right to Cure at Borrower's Expense. The County shall have the right to
cure any monetary default by Borrower under a loan other than the Loan. The Borrower
agrees to reimburse the County for any funds advanced by the County to cure a monetary
default by Borrower upon demand therefore, together with interest thereon at the rate of
twelve percent (12%) per annum (which rate shall in no event exceed the maximum rate
permitted by law and if it does, said rate shall be reduced to the maximum rate then
permitted by law), from the date of expenditure until the date of reimbursement.
8.3 Remedies Cumulative. No right, power, or remedy given to the County by
the terms of this Agreement or the Loan Documents is intended to be exclusive of any
other right, power, or remedy; and each and every such right, power, or remedy shall be
cumulative and in addition to every other right, power, or remedy given to the County by
the terms of any such instrument, or by any statute or otherwise against Borrower and any
other person. Neither the failure nor any delay on the part of the County to exercise any
such rights and remedies shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial
exercise by the County of any such right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise
of such right or remedy, or any other right or remedy.
8.4 Waiver of Terms and Conditions. No waiver of any default or breach by
Borrower hereunder shall be implied from any omission by the County to take action on
account of such default if such default persists or is repeated, and no express waiver shall
affect any default other than the default specified in the waiver, and such waiver shall be
operative only for the time and to the extent therein stated. Waivers of any covenant,
term, or condition contained herein shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 30
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
breach of the same covenant, term, or condition. The consent or approval by the County
to or of any act by Borrower requiring further consent or approval shall not be deemed to
waive or render unnecessary the consent or approval to or of any subsequent similar act.
The exercise of any right, power, or remedy shall in no event constitute a cure or a waiver
of any default under this Agreement or the Loan Documents, nor shall it invalidate any
act done pursuant to notice of default, or prejudice the County in the exercise of any
right, power, or remedy hereunder or under the Loan Documents, unless in the exercise
of any such right, power, or remedy all obligations of Borrower to County are paid and
discharged in full.
ARTICLE IX
MISCELLANEOUS
9.1 Approvals Under Agreement. Where this Agreement requires an approval
or consent of the County, such approval or consent may be given on behalf of the County
by the Director or his or her designee.
9.2 Time. Time is of the essence in this Agreement.
9.3 Notices. Any notice requirement set forth herein shall be in writing and
delivered to the appropriate party at the address listed in this subparagraph. Addresses
for notice may be changed from time to time by written notice to the other party. All
communications shall be effective when actually received; provided, however, that
nonreceipt of any communication as the result of a change in address of which the
sending party was not notified or as the result of a refusal to accept delivery shall be
deemed receipt of such communication.
Borrower:
[BORROWER TO PROVIDE]
County:
[Orange County Housing Authority]
[County of Orange
OC Community Resources/
Housing & Community Development]
1501 E. St. Andrew Place, 1st Floor,
Santa Ana, CA 92705
Attn: [Executive] Director
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 31
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
Such addresses may be changed by notice to the other party given in the same manner as
provided above.
9.4 No Third Parties Benefitted. This Agreement is made and entered into for
the sole protection and benefit of the County, its successors and assigns, and Borrower,
its permitted successors and assigns, and no other person or persons shall have any right
of action hereon.
9.5 County to File Notices. Borrower irrevocably appoints, designates, and
authorizes the County as its agent (said agency being coupled with an interest) to file for
record any notice that the County deems necessary or desirable to protect its interest
hereunder and under the Loan Documents.
9.6 Actions. The County shall have the right to commence, appear in, or
defend any action or proceeding purporting to affect the rights, duties, or liabilities of the
parties hereunder, or the disbursement of any proceeds of the Loan.
9.7 Successors and Assigns. The terms hereof shall be binding upon and inure
to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the parties hereto; provided, however, that
no assignment of Borrower's rights hereunder shall be made, voluntarily or by operation
of law, without the prior written consent of the County as specified in Section 8.7 above,
and that any such assignment without said consent shall be void.
9.8 Construction of Words. Except where the context otherwise requires,
words imparting the singular number shall include the plural number and vice versa,
words imparting persons shall include firms, associations, partnerships and corporations,
and words of either gender shall include the other gender.
9.9 Partial Invalidity. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared
invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the validity, legality, and enforceability of the
remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired.
9.10 Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement and the Loan Documents
and other instruments given pursuant hereto shall be construed in accordance with and be
governed by the laws of the State of California. In the event of any legal action to
enforce or interpret this Agreement or any of the Loan Documents, the sole and exclusive
venue shall be a court of competent jurisdiction located in Orange County, California,
and the parties hereto agree to and do hereby submit to the jurisdiction of such court,
notwithstanding Code of Civil Procedure Section 394.
9.11 Amendment. This Agreement may not be changed orally, but only by an
agreement in writing signed by Borrower and the County.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 32
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
9.12 Approvals. Where an approval or submission is required under this
Agreement, such approval or submission shall be valid for purposes of this Agreement
only if made in writing.
9.13 Captions and Headings. Captions and headings in this Agreement are for
convenience of reference only, and are not to be considered in construing the Agreement.
9.14 Nonliability. By accepting or approving anything required to be
performed or given to County under the Loan Documents, including any certificate,
financial statement, survey, or insurance policy, County shall not be deemed to have
warranted or represented the sufficiency or legal effect of the same, and no such
acceptance or approval shall constitute a warranty or representation by County to anyone.
9.15 Obligations Unconditional and Independent. Notwithstanding the
existence at any time of any obligation or liability of County to Borrower, or any claim
by Borrower against County, in connection with the Loan or otherwise, Borrower hereby
waives any right it might otherwise have (a) to offset any such obligation, liability or
claim against Borrower’s obligations under the Loan Documents or (b) to claim that the
existence of any such obligation, liability or claim excuses the nonperformance by
Borrower of any of its obligations under the Loan Documents.
9.16 Survival of Representations and Warranties. All representations and
warranties of Borrower in the Loan Documents shall survive the making of the Loan and
have been or will be relied on by County notwithstanding any investigation made by
County.
9.17 Prior Agreements. This Agreement (together with the other Loan
Documents) contains the entire agreement between County and Borrower with respect to
the Loan and all prior negotiations, understandings and agreements (including, but not
limited to, any commitment letter issued by County to Borrower) are superseded by this
Agreement and such Loan Documents.
9.18 Conflicts. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this
Agreement and those of any other Loan Document, this Agreement shall prevail;
provided, however, that with respect to any matter addressed in both such documents, the
fact that one document provides for greater, lesser or different rights or obligations than
the other shall not be deemed a conflict unless the applicable provisions are inconsistent
and could not be simultaneously enforced or performed.
9.19 Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury. Unless prohibited by Federal, State or
local laws, each party to this Agreement hereby expressly waives any right to trial by jury
of any claim, demand, action or cause of action arising under any Loan Document or in
any way connected with or related or incidental to the dealings of the parties hereto or
any of them with respect to any Loan Document, or the transactions related thereto, in
each case whether now existing or hereafter arising, and whether sounding in contract or
tort or otherwise; and each party hereby agrees and consents that any such claim,
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 33
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
demand, action or cause of action shall be decided by court trial without a jury, and that
any party to this Agreement may file an original counterpart or a copy of this section with
any court as written evidence of the consent of the parties hereto to the waiver of their
right to trial by jury.
9.20. Multiple Originals; Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in
multiple originals, each of which is deemed to be an original, and may be signed in
counterparts. This Agreement shall become effective when the parties have duly executed
and delivered signature pages of this Agreement to each other. Delivery of this
Agreement shall be effectuated by electronic communication (including by PDF sent by
electronic mail, facsimile or similar means of electronic communication). Any signatures
(including electronic signatures) delivered by electronic communication shall have the
same legal effect as physically delivered original signatures.
and year first above written.
--SIGNATURE PAGES FOLLOW --
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 34
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
BORROWER:
[SIGNATURE BLOCK]
[ ] – County Loan Agreement Borrower Signature Page
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
COUNTY:
COUNTY OF ORANGE, a political subdivision of the
state of California
By:____________________________________
Julia Bidwell, Director
OC Community Resources,
Housing and Community Development
APPROVED AS TO FORM
COUNTY COUNSEL
ORANGE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
By____________________________
Deputy
Dated__________________________
[ ] – County Loan Agreement County Signature Page
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
[ ] – County Loan Agreement Exhibit A
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
EXHIBIT B
EXTREMELY LOW QUALIFIED TENANT/UNIT MIX
[ ], California
HOME RENT & AFFORDABILITY SCHEDULE
Number Number * Gross **Utility ***Net Income Age Project Number
of of Restricted Allowance Restricted Limit Restriction Based of Years
Restricted Bedrooms Rental Rate Rental based on (if any) Sectio Restricted
Units Rate Area n 8
Median Units
Income
(AMI)
Total Total
* Restricted Rental Rate is based on the 2021 Area Median Income (AMI) published by HUD annually and does not include the
utility allowance deduction. UPDATED RENTAL RATE TO BE PROVIDED AT START OF QUALIFIED PROJECT PERIOD.
** Utility allowance is based on the 2022 utility schedule published by the Orange County Housing Authority annually.
*** Rent increases shall be limited to no more than the lower of rent established as affordable based on the Median
Income for the Area and the affordability restrictions set forth above, which is adjusted annually by HUD and
published by the State of California, as referenced in the Loan Agreement Section 3.1(d) except as otherwise
provided in the Loan Agreement Section 3.1(d).
[ ] – County Loan Agreement Exhibit B
Low and Very Low Qualified Tenant/Unit Mix
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
EXHIBIT C
Annual Statement Guidelines
Gross Revenue
Rental Income (including PBV/VASH income)
Laundry & Miscellaneous
Operating Expenses
Obligated debt service on the Senior Loan
Operating reserves
Replacement reserves ($-----/unit)
County annual loan monitoring fee
Other public agency monitoring fees, as applicable
Asset management and property management fee
Utility fees
Property taxes
Insurance premiums
Operating and maintenance expenses
Supportive/Resident services
Cash Flow After Debt Service
Soft Lenders (as applicable)
Partnership Management Fees:
Limited Partner Asset Management Fee in the amount of $-----
General Partner Partnership Management Fee in the amount of $-----
[combined amount not to exceed $25,000 per year per the 2023 NOFA]
Deferred developer fee
Cash Flow Percentage Available for Distribution to the County, as further described
in the Promissory Note
[ ]% County of Orange
County loan accrues at 3% simple interest annually
[ ] – County Loan Agreement Exhibit C
Annual Statement Guidelines