CLAUSE 6: P
============================================================
Type: duration
Risk Level: high
Word Count: 1622
------------------------------------------------------------

ayment of compensation in respect of death, injury or
disablement of the Insured Person (a) from intentional self- a) The Policyholder / Insured Person must take reasonable
injury, suicide or attempted suicide, (b) whilst under the steps or measure to avoid or minimize the quantum of
influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs (c) whilst engaging in any Claim that may be made under this Policy.
aviation or ballooning whilst mounting into, dismounting from
b) Forthwith intimate / file / submit a Claim in accordance
or travelling in any aircraft or balloon other than as a
with Clause 1 and 3 of this section.
passenger (fare paying) in any duly licensed standard type of
aircraft anywhere in the world, (d) directly or indirectly
c) If so requested by the Company, the Insured Person will
caused by venereal diseases, AIDS or insanity, (e) arising or
have to submit himself for a medical examination by the
resulting from the Insured Person committing any breach of
Company's nominated Medical Practitioner as often as
law with criminal intent.
it considers reasonable and necessary. The cost of such
examination will be borne by the Company.
'Standard type of aircraft' means any aircraft duly licensed to
carry passengers (for hire or otherwise) by an appropriate
31 32
d) Proof satisfactory to the Company shall be furnished on In the event of any such withdrawal of product/terms of
all matters upon which a claim is based. Any Medical or policy, premium the company would give a 3 months notice in
other agent of the Company shall be allowed to examine advance to the policyholder.
the Insured Person on the occasion of any alleged injury
In the event of any revision or modification of the product the
or disablement when and so often as the same may
company will notify the policyholder in advance of such
reasonably be required on behalf of the Company. On
changes.
occurrence of an event which will lead to a Claim under
this Policy, the Policyholder/ Insured Person shall:
3. Payment of Interest
i) Allow the Medical Practitioner or any of the
In the event of delay in settlement of claim beyond the period
Company's representatives to inspect the any
as specified by the Insurance Regulatory Development
relevant document pertaining to the injury/
Authority of India (IRDA)the Company shall be liable to pay
accident/incident, medical and hospitalization
interest as per the rate as defined by IRDA's Protection of
records, investigate the facts and examine the
Policy Holder Interest Regulation.
Insured Person.
Section XI (a & B) - Legal Liability
ii) Assist and not hinder or prevent the Company's
representatives in pursuance of their duties for
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of sums which
ascertaining the admissibility of the Claim under the
the Insured shall become legally liable to pay (subject to the sum
Policy. If the Policyholder / Insured Person / legal
set in the Schedule).
heir does not comply with the provisions of these
conditions all benefits under this Policy shall be Sub-section XI A - Towards Employees
forfeited at the Company's option. (domestic Servants):
4. Claim Documents This Sub-section covers Insured's legal liability to domestic
servants under Fatal Accidents Act, 1855/ Employee's
The Policyholder / Insured Person /Nominee /Legal Heir
Compensation Act, 1923 or any amendments thereto and in
shall submit to the Company the following documents for or
Common Law to pay compensation in respect of accidental death
in support of the Claim:
or injury sustained during the Currency of the policy arising out of
and in the course of employment in India with the Insured. In
a. Death Certificate ( in case of Death Claim)
addition to compensation as stated above, the Company will also
pay claimant's cost fees and expenses and defense costs
b. Disability Certificate ( in case of Disability Claim)
incurred with its consent in defending a claim.
c. Duly completed and signed Claim Form, in original
Sub-section XI B - Towards Third Parties:
d. Medical Practitioner's referral letter advising
This Sub-section covers Insured's legal liability to pay
Hospitalization
compensation including claimant's costs, fees and expenses
e. Medical Practitioner's prescription advising drugs/ incurred with the consent of the Company, anywhere in India, in
diagnostic tests / consultation accordance with Indian Law. The liability of the Company under
this Sub-section in respect of compensation and litigation
f. Original bills, receipts and discharge card from the
expenses is limited to the sum specified in the Schedule hereto
Hospital/Medical Practitioner
for any one accident and for all accidents during any one period of
insurance.
g. First Information Report/ Final Police Report
The indemnity under this Sub-section only applies to
h. Post mortem report, if available
compensation and litigation expenses incurred by the Insured
with the Company's written consent in respect of accidental death
i. Any other document as required by the Company to
of or bodily injury to any person other than a person in the
assess the Claim.
Insured's service and/or accidental damage to property caused
Special Terms Applicable to PA section by or through the fault or negligence of the Insured or of any
member of the Insured's family or household permanently
1. Records to be maintained
residing with the Insured.
The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall keep an accurate
Special Exceptions
record containing all relevant accident / injury records and
The Company shall not liable in respect of:
shall allow the Company or its representative(s) to inspect
such records. The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall furnish
1. Any compensation for death of or bodily injury to any
such information as the Company may require under this
member of the Insured's family or damage to property
Policy at any time during the Policy Period and up to three
belonging to or in the custody or the control of the Insured or
years after the policy expiration, or until final adjustment (if
any member of the Insured's family.
any) and resolution of all Claims under this Policy.
2. Liability assumed by the Insured by agreement unless such
2. Withdrawal / Revision / Modification of the Product
liability would have attached to the Insured notwithstanding
such agreement.
The Company reserves the right to withdraw, revise or
modify this product /policy in the future. The
3. Accidents, directly or indirectly, caused by, traceable to or
revision/modification may be in respect of Benefits,
arising out of the ownership, possession or the custody by or
coverage, premiums, policy terms and conditions &/or
on behalf of the Insured of animals, vehicles, aircraft, ship,
exclusions.
boats or crafts of any kind.
33 34
General Conditions And Exceptions Applicable To All (ii) If the Insured Person shall sustain any bodily injury in
Sections respect of which a claim is or may be made hereunder
prompt written notice thereof shall be given to the
a. General Conditions
Company as soon as possible but in any event within
1. Notice: Every notice and communication to the Company fourteen days of the date of injury. If the Insured Person
required by this policy shall be in writing and be addressed to shall die, notice of death shall be given by the legal
the nearest office of the Company. representative(s) forthwith. All certificates, information
and evidence whether from a Medical Attendant or
2. Misdescription: This policy shall be void and all premium
otherwise required by the Company shall be furnished
paid shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of
at the expense of the Insured or his legal
misrepresentation, misdescription or non-disclosure of any
representatives and shall be in such form and of such
material particulars.
nature as the Company may prescribe. The Insured
Person must immediately after the occurrence of any
3. Reasonable Care: The Insured shall take all reasonable
accident which may be the subject of a claim hereunder
steps to safeguard the property insured against any loss or
obtain medical treatment failing which the company will
damage.
not be liable for any consequence thereof.
4. Cancellation: The Company may at any time, cancel this
(iii) The Insured shall forward to the Company forthwith
policy, by giving 7 days notices in writing by Regd. A/D. to the
every written notice or information of any verbal notice
Insured at his last known address in which case the
of claim and shall send to the Company any writ,
Company shall return to the Insured a proportion of the last
summons or other legal process issued or commenced
premium corresponding to the unexpired period of
against the Insured and shall give all necessary
insurance.
information and assistance to enable the Company to
settle or resist any claim or to institute proceedings. The
The Insured may also give 7 days notice in writing, to the
Insured shall not incur any expenses in making good
Company, for the cancellation of this policy, in which case
any claim without the written consent of the Company
Company shall retain premium for the period this policy has
and shall not negotiate, pay, settle, admit or repudiate
been in force at the Company's short period scales (Table
any claim without such consent.
given here below), provided no claim has occurred up to the
date of cancellation of this policy.
6. Contribution: if at the time of happening of any loss or
damage covered by this policy there shall be existing any
Table of Short Period Scales
other insurance covering the same property insured,
Period of Risk Premium to be retained whether effected by the Insured or not then the Company
(Not exceeding) (% of the Annual Rate) shall not be liable to pay or contribute more than its ratable
proportion of any loss or damage. However, this condition
1 Week 10%
shall not have any effect on Section X-Personal Accident of
the policy.
1 Month 25%