CLAUSE 14: T
============================================================
Type: duration
Risk Level: high
Word Count: 15716
------------------------------------------------------------

heft within 7 (seven) if it is
a. The Sum Insured for the Home Building Cover is the
days from the a. of any article or thing
prevailing Cost of Construction of Your Home Building at
occurrence of and outside Your Home, or
the Commencement Date as declared by You and
proximately caused by
b. of any article or thing
accepted by Us and will be the maximum amount payable
any of the above
attached from the outside of
in the event the Home Building is a Total Loss.
Insured Events.
the outer walls or the roof of
b. The Sum Insured will be automatically increased each day
Your Home, unless securely
by an amount representing 1/365th of 10% of Sum Insured
mounted.
at the Policy Commencement Date for annual policies.
Clause C: Home Building Cover
c. Restoration of Sum Insured : Except as stated in Clause G
(III) (3) (b) of this Policy, the insurance cover will at all
1. What We cover
times be maintained during the Policy Period to the full
We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction of Your extent of the respective Sum Insured. This means that
Home Building because of any Insured Event listed in Clause after We have paid for any loss, the policy shall be
B of this Policy. We also cover architect’s, surveyor’s, consulting restored to the full original amount of Sum Insured. You
engineer’s fees, cost of removing debris as specified under must pay to Us proportionate premium for the unexpired
Clause C (5) (f) of this Policy. Further, We pay for Loss of rent Policy Period from the date of loss. We can also deduct
and Rent for Alternative Accommodation, which will be paid to this premium from the net claim that We must pay You.
the extent declared by You and agreed by Us as specified under
5. What We pay
Clause C (6) of this Policy while Your Home Building is not fit for
a. If You make a claim under the policy for damage to Your
living following loss or damage due to an insured event.
Home Building due to any of the insured perils, We
2. Your Home Building
reimburse the cost to repair it to a condition substantially
a. Your Home Building is a building consisting of a the same as its condition at the time of damage. You must
residential unit, having an enclosed structure and a roof, spend for repairs, and claim that amount from Us.
basement (if any) and used as a dwelling place.
b. We will calculate the amount of claim on the basis of the
b. Your Home Building includes actual Carpet Area subject to the Carpet Area not
i. fixtures and fittings permanently attached to the floor,
walls or roof, like fixed sanitary fittings, electrical wiring
and other permanent fittings.
ii. the following ‘additional structures’ if they are on the
same site, and are used as part of Your Home Building:
05 06
exceeding that declared by You in the Proposal Form and completely.
stated in the Policy Schedule.
b. The policy has a built-in cover for the General Contents of
Your home equal to 20% of the Sum Insured for Home
c. The maximum We will pay for all items together is the Sum
Insured shown in the Policy Schedule for Home Building
Building Cover subject to a maximum of 10 Lakh
Cover. If the Policy Schedule shows any limit for any item,
such limit is the maximum We will pay for that item.
(Rupees Ten Lakh) provided You have opted for both
Home Building and Home Contents cover. If You choose to
d. If Your Home Building is a Total Loss, We will pay You the
have a higher Sum Insured for Home Contents, You have
Sum Insured of the Home Building.
to declare the Sum Insured in the Proposal Form and pay
e. If only an additional structure is destroyed, We will pay You
additional premium.
an amount equal to the Cost of Construction of the
c. If You have purchased only Home Contents Cover, You
additional structure.
have to declare the Sum Insured for the General Contents
f. In addition to what Clause C (5) (c) of this Policy
in the Proposal Form.
provides for, We will pay
d. The Sum Insured You have chosen for General Contents
You the following expenses:
must be enough to cover the cost of replacement of the
i. up to 5% of the claim amount for reasonable fees of General Contents.
architect, surveyor, consulting engineer;
e. If You want to cover the Valuable Contents in Your Home,
ii. up to 2 % of the claim amount for reasonable costs of You must opt for the Optional Cover for Valuable Contents
removing debris from the site. as given in Clause E (1) (a) of this Policy.
6. Loss of Rent and Rent for Alternative Accommodation: f. Restoration of Sum Insured: Except as stated in Clause G
In addition to what Clause C (5) (c) of this Policy provides (III) (3) (b) of this Clause below, the insurance cover will at
for, We will pay the amount of rent You lose or alternative all times be maintained during the Policy Period to the full
rent You pay while Your Home Building is not fit for living extent of the respective Sum Insured. This means that
because of physical loss arising out of an Insured Event after We have paid for any loss, the policy shall be
as follows: restored to the full original amount of Sum Insured. You
must pay to Us proportionate premium for the unexpired
a. If You are living in Your Home as a tenant, and You are
Policy Period from the date of loss. We can also deduct
required to pay higher rent for the alternative
this premium from the net claim that We must pay You.
accommodation, We will pay the difference between the
rent for alternative accommodation and the rent of Your 3. What We pay
Home Building.
a. If the General Contents of Your Home are physically
b. We will pay the loss under this cover for an damaged by any Insured Event, We will at Our option,
accommodation that is not superior to Your Home Building
i. reimburse to You the cost of repairs to a condition
in any way and in the same city as Your Home Building.
substantially the same as its condition at the time of
c. The amount of lost rent shall be calculated as follows: damage, or
Sum Insured for Cover for Loss of Rent (as declared by
ii. pay You the cost of replacing that item with a same or
You in the Proposal Form and specified by Us in the
similar item, or
Policy Schedule) X Period necessary for repairs Loss of
iii. repair the damaged item to a condition substantially
Rent Period opted for.
the same as its condition at the time of damage.
d. This cover will be available for the reasonable time
b. The maximum We will pay for Home Contents is the Sum
required to repair Your Home Building to make it fit for
Insured shown in the Policy Schedule for Home Contents
living. The maximum period of this cover is three years
Cover. If the Policy Schedule shows any limit for any item,
from the date Your Home Building becomes unfit for living.
or category or groups of items, such limit is the maximum
You must submit a certificate from an architect or the local
We will pay for that item.
authority to show that Your Home Building is not fit for
living.
Clause E: Additional Covers
e. Claim for loss of rent will be accepted only if We have
accepted Your claim for loss for physical damage to Your
1. Optional Covers:
Home under the Home Building Cover.
a. Cover for Valuable Contents on Agreed Value Basis
Clause D: Home Contents Cover
(under Home Contents cover):
1. What We cover:
For Valuable Contents, a value may be agreed upon by
We cover the physical loss or damage to or destruction of
You and Us based on a valuation certificate submitted by
the General Contents of Your Home caused by an Insured
You and accepted by Us. However, We shall waive the
Event as listed in Clause B of this Policy. Valuable
requirement of valuation certificate if the Sum Insured
Contents of Your Home are not covered under this Policy
opted for is up to Rs. 5 Lakh (Rupees Five Lakh) and
unless You have purchased the optional cover for the
Individual item value does not exceed Rs.1 Lakh (Rupees
Valuable Contents.
One Lakh).
2. Sum Insured:
a. The Sum Insured for the Home Contents Cover is shown
in the Policy Schedule and will be the maximum amount
payable in the event the Home Contents are destroyed/lost
07 08
i. If the Valuable Contents of Your Home are physically vehicles, and explosive substances unless otherwise
damaged by any Insured Event, We will pay the cost expressly stated in the policy.
of repairing the item/s.
7. Loss of any Insured Property which is missing or has been
mislaid, or its disappearance cannot be linked to any
ii. If the Valuable Contents of Your Home are a Total
single identifiable event.
Loss We will pay the Sum Insured shown in the
Policy Schedule for the Valuable item/s. If the Policy 8. Loss or damage to any Insured Property removed from
Schedule shows any limit for any item, or category or Your Home to any other place.
groups of items, such limit is the maximum We will
9. Loss of earnings, loss by delay, loss of market or other
pay for that item. Loss to only one item of a pair or
consequential or indirect loss or damage of any kind or
set does not constitute loss or damage to the entire
description whatsoever.
pair or set.
10. Any reduction in market value of any Insured Property
b. Personal Accident Cover:
after its repair or reinstatement.
In the event an insured peril that caused damages to Your
11. Any addition, extension, or alteration to any structure of
Home Building and/or Home Contents also results in the
Your Home Building that increases its Carpet Area by
unfortunate death of either You or Your spouse, We will
more than 10% of the Carpet Area existing at the
pay compensation of Rs. 5,00,000 (Rupees Five Lakh)
Commencement Date or on the date of renewal of this
per person.
Policy, unless You have paid additional premium and such
In the event of the unfortunate death of the insured, the addition, extension or alteration is added by Endorsement.
Personal Accident cover shall continue for the spouse
12. Costs, fees or expenses for preparing any claim.
until expiry of the policy.
2. Add-ons:
Clause G. Conditions
You can opt for an Add-on by choosing from the Add-ons, if
(I) Your Obligations
any, offered by Us under this product and the ones that You
have purchased will be mentioned in the Policy Schedule 1. Make true and full disclosure in the proposal and
and the relevant clause/s and/or endorsements will be related documents
attached to this Policy.
a. You have a duty of disclosure to tell Us everything You
Clause F. Exclusions (What We do not cover) for all know, or could reasonably be expected to know, that is
covers under this policy relevant to Us for deciding whether to give You insurance
cover and on what terms. You owe this duty to disclose
We do not cover losses and expenses for any loss or damage
such relevant material information even if We have not
or destruction of the Insured Property that is directly or
specifically asked for it. This duty extends to any
indirectly as a result of or is caused by or arising from events,
information or declaration given by anyone else on Your
stated below:
behalf.
1. Your deliberate, willful or intentional act or omission, or of
b. We have agreed to give You insurance cover entirely on
anyone on Your behalf, or with Your connivance.
the basis of the information You, or anyone on Your behalf,
2. War, invasion, act of foreign enemy hostilities or war-like have given Us in the proposal, statements and other
operations (whether war is declared or not), civil war, declarations and documents (in writing or electronic) about
mutiny, civil commotion amounting to a popular rising, Yourself, Your family, Your Home Building and Home
military rising, rebellion, revolution, insurrection or military Contents. The correct and complete information You give
or usurped power. is the basis of Our contract with You. Our promise to pay is
conditional upon the truth of these statements and on the
3. Ionizing radiation or contamination by radioactivity from
assumption that You, or anyone on Your behalf, has not
any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste from
withheld any material information about Yourself, Your
combustion of nuclear fuel, or the radioactive, toxic,
family, Your Home Building and Home Contents.
explosive or other hazardous properties of any explosive
nuclear assembly or nuclear component that is part of it. 2. Obligation to take care : You must:
4. Pollution or contamination, unless a. keep Your Home Building and Home Contents in good
condition and well maintained, You must ensure that the
i. the pollution or contamination itself has resulted from
structure of Your Home Building does not have any faults
an Insured Event, or
or defects that are visible and material that will aggravate
ii. an Insured Event itself results from pollution or
loss or damage to the Home Building in the event an
contamination.
insured peril occurs.
5. Loss, damage or destruction to any electrical/electronic
b. take care to prevent theft, loss or damage to Your Home
machine, apparatus, fixture, or fitting by over-running,
Building and Home
excessive pressure, short circuiting, arcing, self- heating
c. Contents, and
or leakage of electricity from whatever cause (lightning
included). This exclusion applies only to the particular d. ensure that unauthorized persons do not occupy Your
machine so lost, damaged or destroyed. Home Building.
6. Loss or damage to bullion or unset precious stones, 3. Inform change in circumstances : You must inform Us
manuscripts, plans, drawings, securities, obligations or immediately if a. You change Your address,
documents of any kind, coins or paper money, cheques,
a. You make any addition, alteration, extension to the
09 10
2. Cancellation by Us:
structure of Your Home
a. We will not cancel the Policy during the policy period
b. Building,
except on the grounds of mis-representation, non-
c. You let out Your Home Building, or Your Home Building disclosure of material facts, fraud or non-co- operation on
will no longer be solely occupied by You, Your part.
d. You change the use of Your Home Building 2. Automatic termination of the policy
4. Allow inspection and investigation of claim: You must This Policy will automatically end in the following cases:
allow, and give full cooperation to the survey/investigation
a. Destruction of Your Home Building: This Policy will
of Your claim by Us. You must allow Us, and any surveyor,
automatically end 7 (seven) days after Your Home Building
officer or other representative that We authorize, to
collapses or is destroyed by reason other than any Insured
inspect Your Home Building and Home Contents including
Event. If a separable part of Your Home Building, or any
the interior wherever necessary, take photographs and
additional structure falls down or is destroyed by reason
where required, permit the scientific testing and
other than any Insured Event, the covers will end for such
investigation of any insured article affected by the insured
part or additional structure.
peril. You must answer all questions asked regarding Your
claim truthfully and completely, and submit all relevant You can apply within 7 (seven) days of such fall or
documents that We will require. destruction for continuing insurance cover. We may agree,
but will not be bound, to continue the cover on the same
5. Make true statements and full disclosure in the claim
rates, terms and conditions.
and related documents: You must also give true and full
information in Your claim and submit true documents. If b. Exhaustion of Sum Insured: If Your Home Building, or
You give any false information or document in the claim, any additional structure, or any item of Home Contents, is
or if You withhold any information or document (written or lost, destroyed or stolen, or is a Total Loss, and We pay
electronic), We have a right to refuse payment of Your You the full Sum Insured for such item, the insurance
claim. We may also cancel Your policy. cover for that item will automatically end unless the subject
matter of insurance is reconstructed and the Sum Insured
(II) Renewal of Policy
is reinstated by paying additional premium. If We pay the
1. End of Policy: This Policy will expire at the end of the
total Sum Insured for any claim, this Policy will end.
Policy Period.
c. Change of use of Your Home Building or Home
2. Renewal is not automatic, We may seek relevant
Contents: The Policy will end
information from You for the purpose of renewal. We can
i. if You change the use of Your Home Building from
reject Your renewal only on grounds of mis-
personal residence to any other purpose, or
representation, non-disclosure of material facts, fraud or
non-co-operation on Your part. ii. if You use any item of Home Contents for use that is
not personal.
3. Application for renewal: If You wish to renew the Policy,
You must apply for renewal before the end of the Policy
d. Sale of Your Home Building or Home Contents: This
Period and pay the required premium amount.
Policy will end when You sell, surrender or release Your
interest in Your Home Building and/or Home Contents, or
(III) Cancellation and Termination of Policy
Your interest in the Home Building and/or Home Contents
1. Cancellation by You at any Time comes to an end. The Policy will end to the extent any
additional structure of Your Home Building or item of Home
a. You can cancel this Policy at any time by giving Us notice
Contents if You sell, surrender or release Your interest in
in writing. The Policy will terminate when We receive Your
such additional structure or item of Home Content, or Your
notice.
interest in these ends.
b. If You cancel the policy, We will refund premium as
e. Effect of death In the event of the unfortunate death of
follows:
the Insured during the Policy Period, the Home Building
Time for which Policy in force Refund of premium
Cover and the Home Contents Cover that You have
purchased will continue for the benefit of Your legal
15 days 90%
representative/s during the Policy Period subject to all the
1 month 85%
terms and conditions of this Policy.
2 months 70%
(IV) Claims Procedure
3 months 60% If You suffer a loss because of an Insured Event, You must
4 months 50% make a claim for Your financial loss at Your cost. The
procedure for making a claim is given below. These
5 months 40%
include things that You must do, and that You must not do.
6 months 30% It is important to comply with these to ensure that it does
not prejudice Your claim in any manner.
7 months 25%
1. Immediate notice to Us
8 months 20%
a. As soon as any physical loss or damage occurs to Your
9 months 15%
Home Building or Home Contents due to an Insured
For a period exceeding 9 months 0%
11 12
purchased such other insurance, or someone else has
Event, You must immediately give notice to Us of the loss
purchased it for You.
or damage. This is necessary for Us to survey/ investigate
the loss or damage, as may be required.
b. We shall not be liable for any loss or damage after the
expiry of 12 months from the happening of the loss or
b. You can give notice to any of Our offices or call-centres.
damage unless the claim is the subject of pending action
c. You must state in this notice
or arbitration. If We disclaim liability for a claim You have
made and if the claim is not made a subject matter of a
i. the Policy Number,
suit in a court of law within a period of 12 months from the
ii. Your name,
date of disclaimer, the claim shall not be recoverable
iii. details of report to the police that You made, hereunder.
iv. details of report to any Authority that You made, 5. Establish loss
v. details of the Insured Event, a. You must prove that the Insured Event has occurred, and
the extent of physical loss or damage You have suffered
vi. a brief statement of the loss,
with full details.
vii. particulars of any other insurance of Your Home
b. When We request,
Building or any of Your Home Contents,
i. You must support Your claim for Home Building and/or
viii. details of loss or damage under any Optional Cover
Home Contents with plans, specification books,
or Add-ons,
vouchers, invoices pertaining to costs incurred by You
ix. submit photographs of loss or physical damage,
for reconstruction/replacement/repairs.
wherever possible.
ii. You must allow Us, Our officers, surveyors or
2. Steps to prevent loss and damage
representatives to inspect the loss or damage to Your
Home Building and/or Home Contents, and to take
a. You must take all reasonable steps to prevent further loss
measurements, samples, damaged items or parts,
or damage to Your Home Building and Home Contents.
and photographs that are relevant.
b. Until We have inspected Your Home Building and Home
iii. You must give Us authority to see the relevant
Contents, and have given Our consent,
records and get information about the Event and
i. You must not sell, give away or dispose of any
Your loss from the police or any other authority.
damaged items of any property for which You are
c. For Optional Cover of Personal Accident, Death Certificate
making a claim;
and Post Mortem report (wherever necessary) shall be
ii. You must not wash or clean, or remove any damaged
submitted.
item or debris, except for any urgent necessity;
6. Fraudulent claim
iii. You must not carry out repairs, unless such repairs
If You, or anyone on Your behalf, make a false or
are urgent and You cannot contact Us.
fraudulent claim, or support a claim with any false or
3. Immediate notice to Authorities
fraudulent statement or documents:
a. As soon as any loss or damage occurs to the Insured
i. We will not pay,
Property, You must give immediate report to appropriate
ii. We can cancel the Policy: in such a case, You will lose
legal authorities. For example, You must report to the fire
all benefits under this Policy and premium that You
brigade of the local authority and the police if there is
have paid, and
damage by fire/ explosion / implosion or lightning. In
case of subsidence/landslide/rockslide, You must inform
iii. We can also inform the police, and start legal
the District Administration. In the event of impact damage
proceedings against You.
of any kind or Riot Strikes, Malicious damages and acts of
7. Other insurance
terrorism, You must inform the police. If there is a theft
within 7 (seven) days following an Insured Event You a. If You have any other policy with Us or any other Insurance
must inform the police. Company (taken by You or by anyone else for You)
covering in whole or in part any claim that You have made
b. We may, but not necessarily, waive this condition if
under this Policy, You have a right to ask for settlement of
Weare satisfied that by reason of extreme hardship it was
Your claim under any of these policies.
not possible for You or any other person on Your behalf to
give such report. b. If You choose to claim under this Policy from Us, We will
settle Your claim within the limits and the terms and
4. Submit claim
conditions of this Policy.
a. Claim form:
c. After We pay the amount under Your claim, We have the
i. You must submit Your claim in Our claim form at the
right to ask for contribution from the Insurers that have
earliest opportunity, but within 30 days from the date
given You the other policies.
You first notice the loss or damage. The claim form is
d. We will ensure that Our actions do not impose any liability
available in any of Our branches, and on Our web-
on You.
site.
8. Recovery action by Us
ii. You must state in Your claim the details of any other
insurance policy that covers the damage or loss for a. When We accept and pay Your claim under the Policy, We
which You have filed Your claim, whether You have can start legal proceedings to recover the amount or
13 14
property from the third party who has caused the loss or 3. Applicable law and jurisdiction
damage to Your Home Building or Home Contents. You
This Policy will be subject to the laws of India, and to the
must give authority to Us to take such action and exercise
jurisdiction of courts in India.
this right effectively, when We request You, whether
4. Arbitration
before or after making payment of Your claim. You must
give all information, cooperation, assistance and help for
If any dispute or difference arises between You and Us
this purpose. You must not do anything which will
regarding the amount of claim to be paid under this policy
prejudice Our right. We can do this
(liability having been admitted by Us), such difference shall
independently of all other questions, be referred to the
i. without seeking Your consent,
decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by
ii. in Your name, and You and Us or if You and We cannot agree upon a single
arbitrator within 30 days of either of Us opting for
iii. whether or not Your loss has been fully compensated.
arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three
b. Any amount We recover from such person will be applied
arbitrators comprising of two arbitrators, one to be
first to the costs of the legal proceedings and recovery,
appointed by each of Us, to the dispute/difference and the
then to the claim amount We have paid or must pay to
third arbitrator to be appointed by two such arbitrators and
You. We will pay You any balance.
arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance
c. You can start legal proceedings against any person who with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
has caused the loss or damage only with Our prior 1996 Clauses.
consent, and on conditions that We will impose. You must
Terrorism Damage Cover Endorsement (Material Damage
not compromise or settle any claim against such person
only)
without Our consent. If You recover any amount from
such person, You must return to Us the amount We have
A. INSURING CLAUSE
paid for Your claim. We can take over the conduct of legal
Subject otherwise to the terms, exclusions, provisions and
proceedings that You have started and continue the
conditions contained in the Policy and in consideration of
proceedings in Your name.
the payment by the insured to the Company of additional
Clause H. Changes to covers
premium as stated in the Schedule, it is hereby agreed
a. You can choose to make changes to the covers of this and declared that notwithstanding anything stated in the
Policy as may be permitted by Us, or increase or reduce "Terrorism Risk Exclusion" of this Policy to the contrary,
any Sum Insured. You must make a proposal or request this Policy is extended to cover physical loss or physical
for any change. It will be effective only after We have damage occurring during the period of this Policy caused
accepted Your proposal, and You have paid the additional by an act of terrorism to the location/s mentioned in the
premium, where applicable. schedule subject to the exclusions, limits and excess
described hereinafter.
b. This Policy (including the Policy Schedule, the proposal,
declarations and Endorsements) consists of the entire For the purpose of this cover, an act of terrorism means an
contract between You and Us. act or series of acts, including but not limited to the use of
force or violence and/or the threat thereof, of any person
Clause I. Waiver of Underinsurance
or group(s) of persons, whether acting alone or on behalf
of or in connection with any organization(s) or
Underinsurance does not apply to Thus, if Your Sum
government(s), or unlawful associations, recognized under
Insured calculated on the basis of the information that You
Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act, 2008 or
provided, is less than the actual value at risk, the
any other related and applicable national or state
difference will not affect the amount We pay.
legislation formulated to combat unlawful and terrorist
Clause J. Other Details
activities in the nation for the time being in force,
committed for political, religious, ideological or similar
1. Notices
purposes including the intention to influence any
a. We will send any notice, letter or communication in writing
government and/or to put the public or any section of the
to You at Your address mentioned in the Policy Schedule,
public in fear for such purposes.
and to Your email address that You have registered with
This cover also includes loss, damage, cost or expense
Us.
directly caused by, resulting from or in connection with any
b. You will sd any notice, letter, intimation or communication
action taken in suppressing, controlling, preventing or
minimizing the consequences of an act of terrorism by the
in writing to Us at Our branch office where You purchased
duly empowered government or Military Authority.
this Policy. You can also send it at the address mentioned
in the Policy Schedule.
Provided that If the Insured is eligible for indemnity under
any government compensation plan or other similar
2. Nomination for this Policy
scheme in respect of the damage described above, this
You can nominate a person to receive the claim amount
Policy shall be excess of any recovery due from such plan
under this Policy in the event of Your death. You can
or scheme.
make such nomination at the time You take the Policy, or
For the purpose of the aforesaid inclusion clause, "Military
later. You can also change the nomination at any time.
Authority" shall mean armed forces, para military forces,
You can make the nomination on Our nomination form
police or any other authority constituted by the government
available in Our office or from Our website:
for maintaining law and order.
www.reliancegeneral.co.in.
15 16
13. loss or increased cost as a result of threat or hoax;
B.L OSSES EXCLUDED
14. loss or damage caused by or arising out of burglary, house
This cover shall not indemnify loss of or damage to property
- breaking, looting, theft, larceny or any such attempt or
caused by any or all of the following:- A
any omission of any kind of any person (whether or not
1. loss by seizure or legal or illegal occupation;
such act is committed in the course of a disturbance of
public peace) in any action taken in respect of an act of
2. loss or damage caused by:
terrorism; R
(i) voluntary abandonment or vacation,
15. loss or damage caused by mysterious disappearance or
(ii) confiscation, commandeering, nationalization,
unexplained loss;
requisition, detention, embargo, quarantine, or any
16. loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by mould,
result of any order of public or government authority,
mildew, fungus, spores or other micro-organism of
which deprives the Insured of the use or value of its
any type, nature or description, including but not limited to
property;
any substance whose presence poses an actual or
3. loss or damage arising from acts of contraband or illegal
potential threat to human health;
transportation or illegal trade;
17. total or partial cessation of work or the retardation or
4. loss or damage directly or indirectly arising from or in
interruption or cessation of any process or operations or
consequence of the seepage and or discharge of
omissions of any kind
pollutants or contaminants, which pollutants and
C. LIMIT OF INDEMNITY
contaminants shall include but not be limited to any solid,
liquid, gaseous or thermal irritant, contaminant or toxic or
The limit of indemnity under this cover shall not exceed the
hazardous substance or any substance the presence,
Total Sum Insured given in the Policy Schedule or INR
existence or release of which endangers or threatens to
2,000,00,00,000 per compound/location whichever is
endanger the health, safety or welfare of persons or the
lower.
environment;
In respect of terrorism cover for dwellings, limit of
5. loss or damage arising directly or indirectly from or in
indemnity shall not exceed Total Sum Insured as
consequence of chemical or biological emission, release,
mentioned in the Policy Schedule or INR 400,00,00,000
discharge, dispersal or escape or chemical or biological
per compound/ location whichever is lower.
exposure of any kind;
In respect of several locations being covered under a
6. loss or damage arising directly or indirectly from or in
single policy on a floater basis, the maximum aggregate
consequence of asbestos emission, release, discharge,
loss suffered from all the locations mentioned in the Policy
dispersal or escape or asbestos exposure of any kind;
schedule shall not exceed Total Sum Insured as
mentioned in the Policy Schedule or Rs. 2,000,00,00,000
7. any fine, levy, duty, interest or penalty or cost or
/- whichever is lower.
compensation/damages and/or other assessment which is
incurred by the Insured or which is imposed by any court,
In respect of several insurance policies within the same
government agency, public or civil authority or any other
compound/location with one or different insurers, the
person;
maximum aggregate loss payable per compound/location
by any one or all insurers shall be INR 2,000,00,00,000. If
8. loss or damage by electronic means including but not
the actual aggregate loss suffered at one compound/
limited to computer hacking or the introduction of any
location is more than INR 2,000,00,00,000 the amounts
form of computer virus or corrupting or unauthorized
payable towards individual policies shall be reduced in
instructions or code or the use of any electromagnetic
proportion to the sum insured of the policies.
weapon. This exclusion shall not operate to exclude
losses (which would otherwise be covered under this
D. EXCESS*
Policy) arising from the use of any computer, computer
Shops & Residential Risks : 1% of the claim amount for
system or computer software programme or any other
each and every claim subject to Minimum of INR 10,000
electronic system in the launch and/or guidance system
and Maximum of INR 500,000
and/or firing mechanism of any weapon or missile;
Non-Industrial Risks : 1% of the claim amount for each and
9. loss or damage caused by vandals or other persons
every claim subject to Minimum of INR 25,000 and
acting maliciously or by way of protest or strikes, labour
Maximum of INR 1,000,000
unrest, riots or civil commotion;
Industrial Risks : 5% of the claim amount for each and
10. loss or increased cost occasioned by any public or
every claim subject to Minimum of INR 100,000 and
government or local or civil authority's enforcement of any
Maximum of INR 25,00,000.
ordinance or law regulating the reconstruction, repair or
demolition of any property insured hereunder; *Whichever is applicable
11. any consequential loss or damage, loss of use, delay or E. ADD ON COVERS
loss of markets, loss of income, depreciation, reduction in
It is further declared and agreed that the limit of indemnity
functionality, or increased cost of working;
including the claim on add on cover(s) shall not exceed
12. loss or damage caused by factors including but not limited total sum insured plus separate sublimit opted for add on
to cessation, fluctuation or variation in, or insufficiency of, cover(s) or INR 2,000,00,00,000 whichever is lower. In
water, gas or electricity supplies and telecommunications respect of several insurance policies with in the same
or any type of service; compound /location, the maximum aggregate loss
17 18
reinstatement value or market value as defined under Section I
payable per compound/location by any one or all insurers
of the policy, as opted by the Insured.
shall be INR 2,000,00,00,000. In respect of terrorism cover for long term dwellings, limit Basis of Indemnity
of indemnity including the claim on add on cover(s) shall
- The indemnity shall be on the basis of reinstatement value
not exceed total sum insured plus separate sublimit opted
or market value as opted by the Insured.
for add on cover(s) or INR 400,00,00,000/- whichever is
lower. In respect of several insurance policies within the
- In the event of property insured being damaged by any of
same compound/location, the maximum aggregate loss
the insured perils, the Company shall pay for the amount of
payable per compound/location by any one or all insurers
damage or loss or at its option replace or repair the
shall be INR 400,00,00,000/-.
damaged property.
F. MID TERM COVER
- If the property hereby insured shall, at the commencement
In case the coverage under this endorsement is granted of any destruction of or damage to the property by any of the
during the currency of the policy, no claims will be insured perils be collectively of greater value than the sum
insured thereon, then the Insured shall be considered as
payable for loss or damage to property caused by an act
being his own insurer for the difference and shall bear a A
of terrorism occurring during the first 15 (fifteen) days
ratable portion of the loss accordingly.
from the date of granting such cover.
G. SANCTION, LIMITATION AND EXCLUSION CLAUSE Provided, however, that if the sum insured hereby on the
property insured shall at the breaking out of such fire or at R
No (re)insurer shall be deemed to provide cover and no
the commencement of such destruction or damage be not
(re)insurer shall be liable to pay any claim or provide any
less than 85% (eighty five percent) of the collective value of
benefit hereunder to the extent that the provision of such
the property insured, clause 3 of Basis of Indemnity under
cover, payment of such claim or provision of such benefit
this Section shall not apply, notwithstanding anything to the
would expose that (re)insurer to any sanction, prohibition
contrary contained in the policy.
or restriction under United Nations resolutions or the trade
or economic sanctions, laws or regulations of the Special Exceptions
European Union, United Kingdom or United States of
The Company shall not by liable in respect of loss or damage:-
America.
1. By burglary and/or housebreaking or theft where any
H. CANCELLATION CLAUSE
member of the Insured's family is concerned as principal or
Notwithstanding the cancellation provisions relating to the
accessory
basic insurance policy on which this endorsement is
issued, there shall be no refund of premium allowed for 2. To livestock, motor vehicles and pedal cycles
cancellation of the Terrorism risk insurance during the
3. To money, securities for money, stamps, bullion, deeds,
period of insurance except where such cancellation is
bonds, bills of exchange, promissory notes, shares and
done along with the cancellation of the basic insurance.
stock certificates, business books, manuscripts, documents
Where a policy is cancelled and rewritten mid-term purely
of any kind, unset precious stones and jewellery and
for the purpose of coinciding with the accounting year of
valuables, unless separately specified.
the insured, pro-rate refund of the cancelled policy
premium will be allowed.
If the cancellation is for any other purpose, refund of Section III — All Risks (jewellery And Valuables)
premium will only be allowed after charging short term
The Company will indemnify the Insured or any member of the
scale rates.
family in respect of loss or damage to jewellery and valuables
Section II- Burglary And House Breaking Including caused by accident or misfortune whilst anywhere in India.
Provided that the liability of the Company in respect on any one
Larceny Or Theft
item in any one period of insurance will not exceed the sum
Definition
insured set against such item in the Schedule hereto and not
exceeding in the aggregate the total sum insured hereby.
"Contents" mean items of property in the Insured's house
including items of property therein for which the Insured is
Provided further that where damage to any item can be repaired
accountable.
the Company will pay expenses necessarily incurred to restore
the damaged item to its former state of serviceability not
What is covered
exceeding the sum insured in respect of such item.
a) The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss or
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this policy,
damage to contents, by burglary and housebreaking
the condition of average insofar as this Section is concerned
including larceny and theft.
shall not apply.
b) Damage to the Insured's house and/or safe resulting from
Special Exceptions
burglary and/or housebreaking or any attempt thereat
subject to a maximum of 5% of the sum insured under this
The Company shall not be liable in respect of loss or damage
Section. Provided however that no loss under clauses a)
caused by or due to
and b) hereinabove, shall together exceed the sum insured
under this Section.
Sum Insured
The basis of valuation in respect of contents shall be on
19 20
1. Cracking, scratching or breakage of lens or glass whether known to the Insured, regardless of whether such faults, or
part of any equipment or otherwise or to china, marble, defects were known to the Company or not
gramophone records and other articles of brittle or fragile
3. Any fault or defect for which the manufacturer or supplier of
nature unless such loss of damage arises from accident to a
the damaged item is responsible
railway train or ship or aircraft or vehicle by which such
property is being conveyed.
4. Cost of transport to the repair shop and back to the Insured's
premises in respect of any item damaged
2. Moth, mildew, carmine or any process of cleaning, dyeing,
repairing or restoring to which the property is subjected.
5. Perils which are insurable under other Sections of the policy
3. Mechanical derangement or over winding of watches and
6. permanent or temporary dispossession resulting from
clocks.
confiscation, commandeering or requisition by any lawfully
constituted authority of such item or by permanent or
4. Theft from car except from car of fully enclosed salon type
temporary dispossession of any building resulting from the
having all the doors, windows and other openings securely
unlawful occupation by the Insured of the building.
locked and properly fastened.
Excess
5. Whilst being conveyed by any carrier under contract of
affreightrment.
Coverage under this Section is subject to an excess of 1 % of the
sum insured for each item or Rs. 100/- whichever is higher, in
Special Conditions
respect of each and every claim for loss or damage admitted
1. Where any item insured hereunder consists of articles in pair under the policy.
or set the Company's liability in respect thereof shall not
Section V - Domestic Electronic Appliances
exceed the value of any article which may be lost or
damaged without reference to any special value which such
What is covered
article may have as part of such pair or set.
The Company will indemnify the Insured against loss or damage
2. No one article or pair of articles is deemed to be more than
to personal computers (including accessories and printer), other
10% of the sum insured under this Section unless separately
domestic electronic appliances and / or any electronic installation
specified and value stated.
while contained or fixed in the Insured's house due to any cause
other than those specifically excluded.
Section IV- Domestic Mechanical & Electrical Appliances
Sum Insured
The Company will indemnify the Insured against unforeseen and
sudden physical damage caused by and/or solely due to
The sum insured in respect of each item for coverage under this
mechanical and/or electrical breakdown of domestic electrical
Section shall be equal to the cost of replacement of such item by a
arid mechanical appliances, apparatuses or gadgets specified in
new item of the same kind and capacity which shall mean its
the Schedule hereto whilst contained in or fixed in the Insured's
current new replacement cost (CNRV basis).
house. Provided that the liability of the Company in respect of any
one item in any one period of insurance will not exceed the sum
Basis of Indemnity
insured set against such item in the Schedule.
1. Where damage to an insured item can be repaired the
Sum Insured
Company will pay the expenses necessarily incurred to
restore the damaged item to its former state of serviceability
It is a requirement of this insurance that the sum insured in
or pay the actual value of item immediately before
respect of each item specified in the Schedule shall be equal to
occurrence of the loss, if the cost of repair exceeds or equals
the cost of replacement of the insured property by new property of
the actual value of item.
the same kind and capacity (CNRV basis).
2. The Company will also pay cost of dismantling and re-
Basis of Indemnity
erection incurred for the purpose of effecting repairs,
ordinary freight to and from a repair shop and customs duties
a) Where damage to an insured item can be repaired the
and other dues, if any, in the event and to the extent such
Company will pay expenses necessarily incurred to restore
expenses have been included in the sum insured.
the damaged item to its former state of serviceability. If the
cost of repair exceeds the actual value of the insured item
3. No deduction shall be made towards depreciation in respect
immediately before the occurrence of the damage the
of parts replaced except for parts with limited life of use but
settlement shall be made on the basis provided for in clause
the value of salvage will be taken into account. However, in
b) below;
case of payment of total loss of entire equipment, proper
depreciation will be deducted from replacement value of
b) In case of total loss, claims will be paid subject to
items.
depreciation of 10% per year from the date of purchase. The
maximum depreciation however shall not exceed 50% of the
Specific Exclusions
sum insured of any item.
1. Damage caused by any faults or defects existing at the time
Special Conditions
of commencement of present insurance within the
knowledge of Insured or his representatives whether such
The Company shall not be liable in respect of loss or damage
faults or defects were known to the Company or not.
caused by or due to:
2. Willful act or negligence of the Insured or his representative.
1. Willful act or gross negligence of the Insured 2. f a u l t s
existing at the time of commencement of this insurance and
3. Loss arising out of cessation of work whether total or partial.
21 22
4. Derangement of the insured property not accompanied by or damage in any one period of insurance is limited to the amount
damage covered under this policy. specified in the Schedule.
5. Loss of or damage to the property covered under this policy 2) This Section further covers damage to property belonging to
falling under the terms of the Maintenance agreement. Such or in the custody or control of the Insured caused by
exclusions will also apply to parts exchanged in course of breakage or collapse f the antenna fittings or mast forming
such maintenance operations. part of the Television Apparatus in so far as such property is
not otherwise insured provided that the liability of the
6. Damage due to defects of design material or workmanship or
Company in respect of such damage in any one period of
otherwise for which the manufacturer or supplier of the
insurance is limited to Rs. 3,000/- (Rupees three thousand
insured items is responsible either in law or under contract.
only).
7. Damage due to or consequent upon wear and tear, gradual
3) This Section also covers legal liability to pay compensation
deterioration, atmospheric or climatic conditions, rust,
and litigation expenses incurred by the Insured with the
corrosion, moth, vermin or insect.
Company's written consent in respect of accidental death of
or bodily injury to any person other than a member of the
8. Loss due to mysterious disappearance and whilst left in
Insured's family or a person in the Insured's service and or
unattended vehicles in respect of cellular phones, portable
accidental damage to property not belonging to or in the
computers and other mobile equipment.
custody or control of the Insured or any member or the
Insured's family or person in the Insured's service arising out
9. Loss or damage to own/in-house developed software.
of accident happening through or in connection with the
Excess television set or to breakdown or defect in the Television
Apparatus or breaking or collapse of the internal fittings or
Coverage under this Section is subject to an excess in respect of
mast forming part of the Television Apparatus and the liability
each and every claim for loss or damage admitted under the
of the Company in respect of such.
policy as specified below:
Compensation and litigation expenses in any one period of
a) In case of personal computers, 5% of the claim amount
insurance is limited to Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees twenty five thousand
subject to a minimum of Rs. 2,500/-.
only)
b) In case of equipments (other than personal computers) with
Special Exceptions
values upto Rs. 1 lath, 5% of the claim amount subject to a
minimum of Rs. 1,000/-. The Company shall not be liable in respect of loss or damage:
c) In case of equipments (other than personal computers) with 1. To external antenna or fittings by theft unless the Television
values more than Rs. 1 lath, 5% of the claim amount subject Apparatus itself is stolen at the same time
to a minimum of Es. 2,500/-.
2. Caused by or arising out of or traceable to erection, repairing
Section Vi- Television Set or dismantling of the Television Apparatus
Definition 3. For which the manufacturer or supplier of the Television
Apparatus is responsible
"Television Apparatus" shall mean and include a Television Set,
accessories forming part of the set and antenna both external and 4. Liability assumed by the Insured by agreement unless such
internal. liability could have attached to the Insured notwithstanding
such agreement.
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of:
Section VII- Fixed Plate Glass
1. Loss of or damage to the television apparatus described in
the Schedule hereto whilst contained or fixed in the insured This Section covers loss or damage due to accidental breakage
premises by: of
a) Fire, lightning, explosion of gas in domestic appliances. a) Fixed plate glass,
b) Bursting and overflowing of water tanks, apparatus or b) Frames or framework,
pipes.
c) Lettering consequent upon the breakage of glass.
c) Aircraft or articles dropped there from.
Sum Insured
d) Earthquake (fire and/or shock)
Sum insured shall be on reinstatement value.
e) Flood, inundation, typhoon, storm, tempest hurricane,
Basis of indemnity
tornado and cyclone.
Basis of indemnity shall be on reinstatement value. If the sum
f) Riot, strike, terrorism or malicious act.
insured is less than the replacement value of property then the
g) Burglary and/or house breaking or theft. Insured shall be considered his own insurer for the difference
between sum insured and cost of replacement and accordingly
h) Accidental external means.
shall bear a ratable proportion of the damage. Every item, if more
than one, shall be separately subject to this clause.
i) Mechanical or electrical breakdowns.
The liability of the Company in respect of any one loss or all
Provided that the liability of the Company in respect of such loss
losses in any one period of insurance is limited to the sum insured
23 24
set against each item of property in the Schedule hereto. tape recorders) arising from overrunning, excessive
pressure, short circuiting, arcing, self-heating or leakage of
Special Exceptions
electricity from whatever cause (lightning included).
The Company shall not be liable in respect of:
6. Theft from car except from car of fully enclosed saloon type
having all the doors, windows and other openings securely
1. Breakage or damage during removal, alterations and/or
locked and properly fastened.
repairs on or about the insured premises.
7. Damage whilst being conveyed by any carrier under contract
2. Breakage of lettering unaccompanied by breakage or
of affreightment.
damage of glass.
8. Loss or damage of money, securities, manuscripts, deeds,
3. Breakage of or damage to frames or framework of any
bonds, bills of exchange, promissory notes, stock or share
description unless specifically declared.
certificates, stamps, business books or documents,
jewellery, watches, furs, precious metals, precious stones,
4. Disfiguration or scratching or damage of glass other than
gold and silver ornaments, travel tickets, cheques and bank
fracture extending through the entire thickness of glass.
drafts.
5. Embossed, silvered, lettered, ornamental, curved or any
9. Damage or destruction of articles of consumable nature.
glass whatsoever other than glass which is plain and or
ordinary glazing quality, unless the same be separately
10. Loose articles such as sticks, straps, umbrellas, sunshades,
specified.
fans, deck chairs, property in use on a voyage and/or journey
or articles or clothes whilst being worn on the person or
6. Breakage of glass not completely and securely fixed.
carried about.
7. Loss or damage consequent upon interruption or delay of
11. Damage or destruction caused by or arising from leakage,
business or other loss, damage or injury arising from
spilling or exploding of liquids, oils or materials of a like
breakage of glass or during replacement thereof.
nature or articles of a dangerous or damaging nature.
Section VIII- Baggage
Section IX - Pedal Cycle
Definition
1) The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss or
"Baggage" shall mean and include personal articles and damage to Pedal Cycles described in the Schedule hereto,
belongings necessary for the journey undertaken and articles or belonging to the Insured or any member of the Insured's
things acquired during the journey. family permanently residing with him by
What is covered a) Fire, lighting or external explosion.
The Company will indemnify the Insured and/or family members b) Riot, strike, terrorism or malicious act.
who permanently reside with him / her for personal baggage
c) Burglary and/or House breaking or theft.
accompanying the Insured or family members and belonging to
him / her or for which he / she is responsible whilst traveling
d) Accidental external means.
anywhere in India, lost, destroyed or damaged by accident or
e) Flood, cyclone, storm, tempest and other similar
misfortune provided that the liability of the Company in respect of
convulsions of nature and atmospheric disturbance
the property so lost, destroyed or damaged shall be limited to its
actual value at the time of happening of such loss but not
f) Earthquake (fire and/or shock).
exceeding in any one period of insurance the sum in respect of
each of the several items specified in the Schedule hereto.
Provided that the liability of the Company in respect of loss or
damage to anyone pedal cycle in any one period of
Special Exceptions
insurance will not exceed the sum insured set against it in the
Schedule.
The Company shall not be liable in respect of:
2) The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of all
1. Damage due to confiscation or detention by Customs or any
sums which the Insured shall become legally liable to pay as
other public authority.
compensation and litigation expenses incurred by the
2. Damage not reported to Police within 24 hours of discovery Insured with the Company's written consent for accidental
of loss and a report obtained. death of or bodily injury to any person other than a member of
the Insured's family or a person in the Insured's service or
3. Damage due to cracking, scratching or breakage of lens or
being conveyed on such cycle and/or accidental damage to
glass whether part of any equipment or otherwise or china,
property not belonging to or in the custody or control of the
marble, gramophone records and other articles of a brittle or
Insured or any member of the Insured's family or being
fragile nature unless such loss or damage arises from
conveyed on such cycle in the event of accident caused by or
accident to a vessel, train, vehicle or aircraft by which such
happening through or in connection with any Pedal Cycle
property is conveyed.
insured provided that the liability of the Company in respect
of such compensation and litigation expenses in any one
4. Damage caused by moth, mildew, vermin or any process of
period of insurance is limited to Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten
cleaning, dyeing, repairing or restoring to which the property
thousand only)
is subjected.
Special Exceptions
5. Damage to any electrical machines, apparatus, fixtures or
fittings (including wireless sets, radio, television sets and
The Company shall not be liable in respect of loss or damage to
25 26
the pedal cycle: Insured Person;
i) whilst it is being used for hire or reward or outside India. ii) use of two hands or two feet, or of one hand and one
foot, or of such loss of sight of one eye and such loss
ii) caused by over loading, strain or mechanical
of use of one hand or one foot, the Capital Sum
breakdown
Insured stated in the Schedule hereto, applicable to
such Insured Person.
iii) to accessories by theft unless the Pedal Cycle is stolen
at the same time
c) If such injury shall within twelve calendar months of its
occurrence be the sole and direct cause of the total and
iv) occurring whilst being used for racing.
irrecoverable loss of:
Special Condition
i) the sight of one eye, or of the actual loss by physical
separation of one entire hand or of one entire foot,
The Pedal Cycle should be securely locked when left unattended.
fifty percent (50%) of the Capital Sum Insured
Section X - Personal Accident stated in the Schedule hereto, applicable to such
Insured Person;
1. Definition:
ii) use of a hand or a foot without physical separation,
Insured / Insured Person: A person accepted by the
fifty percent (50%) of the Capital Sum Insured
Company to be insured under this Policy and who meets and
stated in the Schedule hereto applicable to such
continues to meet all the eligibility requirements and whose
Insured Person.
name specifically appears under Insured (Insured Person)
in the Policy Schedule and with respect to whom the NOTE: For the purpose of Clauses (b) and (c) above,
premium has been received by the Company. 'physical separation' of a hand means separation at or above
the wrist and of the foot means at or above the ankle.
Accident: An accident is a sudden, unforeseen and
involuntary event caused by external visible and violent d) If such injury shall, as a direct consequence thereof,
means. immediately, permanently, totally and absolutely, disable
the Insured Person from engaging in being occupied with
Illness: Illness means a sickness or a disease or
or giving attention to any employment or occupation of
pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal
any description whatsoever, then a lump sum equal to
physiological function which manifests itself during the
hundred percent (100%) of the Capital Sum Insured,
policy period and required medical treatment.
stated in the Schedule hereto applicable to such Insured
Person.
Injury: Injury means accidental physical bodily harm
excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused by
e) If such injury shall within twelve calendar months of its
external, violent and visible and evident means which is
occurrence be the sole and direct cause of the total
verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner
and/or partial and irrecoverable loss of use or of the
actual loss by physical separation of the following, then
Sum Insured / Capital Sum Insured: Sum Insured / Capital
the percentage of the Capital Sum Insured applicable to
Sum Insured means the sum as specified in the Schedule /
such Insured Person in the manner indicated below:
Annexure to this Policy against the name of Insured/Insured
Person/s, which sum represents the Company's maximum
Description of loss Percentage of
liability for any and all claims pertaining to that insured
Capital Sum
person under this Policy during the Policy period.
Insured (CSI)
2. What is covered:
Loss of toes - all 20%
This section provides for compensation , if during the policy
Loss of toes great - both phalanges 5%
period, the insured person shall sustain any injury resulting
from an accident, then the Company shall pay to the Insured Loss of toes great - one phalanx 2%
or his legal representative(s), as the case may be, the sum
Loss of toes other than great, 1%
or sums hereinafter set forth, that is to say –
if more than one toe lost: each
a) if such injury shall within twelve calendar months of its
Loss of hearing - both ears 75%
occurrence be the sole and direct cause of the death of
the Insured Person, the Capital Sum Insured stated in
Loss of hearing - one ear 30%
the Schedule hereto, applicable to such Insured
Person;
Loss of four fingers and thumb 40%
of one hand
b) if such injury shall within twelve calendar months of its
occurrence be the sole and direct cause of the total and
Loss of four fingers 35%
irrecoverable loss of:
Loss of thumb - both phalanges 25%
i) sight of both eyes, or of the actual loss by physical
separation of two entire hands or two entire feet, or Loss of thumb - one phalanx 10%
of one entire hand and one entire foot, or of such
Loss of index finger - three 10%
loss of sight of one eye and such loss of one entire
phalanges or two phalanges or
hand or one entire foot, the Capital Sum Insured
one phalanx
stated in the Schedule hereto applicable to such
27 28
Loss of middle finger - three 6% EXTENSION: MEDICAL EXPENSE:
phalanges or two phalanges or
The company undertakes, subject to the terms, conditions,
one_phalanx
exclusions and definitions contained herein or endorsed or
Loss of ring finger - three 5% otherwise expressed hereon that if during the Policy Period, the
phalanges or two phalanges or Insured/Insured Person shall contract any injury , which results in
one phalanx a claim which is admissible under the Policy, the Company shall
indemnify the Insured/Insured Person, for the amount of such
Loss of little finger - three 4%
medical expenses, which should be reasonable & customary ,
phalanges or two phalanges or
and which have been incurred during Hospitalization ,during
one phalanx
Policy period, for In-patient Care on the written medical advice of
a Medical Practitioner for the Medically necessary treatment of
Loss of metacarpals - first or 3%
the Insured subject to the following:
second (additional) or third,
fourth or fifth (additional)
The Company's maximum liability for such expenses shall not
exceed 40% of the compensation paid in settlement of a valid
Any other permanent partial Percentage as
claim under Scope of Cover or 20% of the relevant sum insured
disablement - assessed by a
whichever is less.
panel doctor of
the Company
For the purpose of this extension the following words shall mean:
f) if such injury shall be the sole and direct cause of
'Hospital' means any institution established for in-patient care
temporary total disablement, then so long as the Insured
and day care treatment of illness and / or injuries and which has
Person shall be totally disabled from engaging in any
been registered as a hospital with the local authorities, wherever
employment or occupation of any description
applicable , and is under the supervision of a registered and
whatsoever, a sum at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
qualified medical practitioner and must comply with all minimum
Capital Sum Insured stated in the Schedule hereto per
criteria as under the Clinical Establishments (Registration &
week, but in any case not exceeding Rs. 5,000/- per
Regulation) Act, 2010 or under enactments specified under the
week in all, under all personal accident policies covering
Schedule of Section 56 (1) of the said act or complies with all
such Insured Person.
minimum criteria as under:
Provided that the compensation payable under the foregoing
a. has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the
Clause (f) shall not be payable for more than 100 weeks in
clock;
respect of any one injury calculated from the date of
commencement of disablement and in no case shall exceed b. has at least 10 inpatient beds, in towns having a population of
the Capital Sum Insured applicable to such Insured Person. less than 10,00,000 and atleast 15 inpatient beds in all other
places;
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated herein only
those benefits, which are mentioned above under clauses c. has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the
“a” to “f”, shall be covered under the policy which have been clock;
specifically mentioned and covered under the Policy
d. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where
Schedule.
surgical procedures are carried out
ADDITIONAL BENEFIT
e. maintains daily records of patients and make these
1. Carriage Of Dead Body: In the event of death of the Insured accessible to the Insurance Company's authorized
Person due to accident as defined in the policy outside personnel.
his/her residence, the Company in addition to the amount
'Hospitalization' means admission in a hospital for a minimum
payable under the foregoing Clause
period of 24 consecutive hours for Inpatient care except for day
a) shall also pay for transportation of Insured Person's care treatment, where such admission could be for a period of
dead body to the place of residence a lump sum of 2% of less than 24 consecutive hours.
Capital Sum Insured or Rs. 2,500/- whichever is less.
'In-patient care' means treatment for which the insured person
2. Education Grant: In the event of death or permanent total has to stay in a hospital for more than 24 hours for a covered
disablement of the Insured due to accident, the Company event.
shall pay as education grant for the dependent children as
'Medical Advise' means any consultation or advice from a medical
below:
practitioner including the issue of any prescription or repeat
a) If the insured has one dependent child below the age of prescription.
25 years, an amount equal to 10% of the capital sum
'Medical Expenses' means those expenses that an insured
insured subject to maximum of Rs. 5000.
person has necessarily and actually incurred, during the policy
b) If the insured has more than one dependent child below period for medical treatment on account of injury on the Medical
age of 25 years, an amount equal to 10% of the capital Advice of a medical practitioner, as long as these are no more
sum insured subject to maximum of Rs. 10,000, than would have been payable if the insured person had not been
irrespective of number of dependent children. Payment insured and no more than other hospitals or Medical Practitioners
of education grant as above will be made along with the in the same locality would have charged for the same medical
capital sum insured to the same person who is / are treatment.
entitled to receive capital sum insured.
'Medical Practitioner' is a person who holds a valid registration
29 30
from the Medical Council of any state or Medical Council of India authority irrespective of whether such an aircraft is privately
and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; owned or chartered or operated by a regular airline or whether
and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of his license and such an aircraft has a single engine or multiengine.
should not be the policy holder/ insured or close family member of
Policy holders's/ Insured Person's duty at the time of claim
the policyholder/ insured.
Claim Procedure
'Medically necessary treatment' is any treatment, tests,
medication, or stay in hospital or part of stay in a hospital which
The fulfillment of the terms and conditions of this Policy (including
the realization of premium by their respective due dates) in so far
a. Is required for the medical management of the injury suffered
as they relate to anything to be done or complied with by the
by the insured;
Policyholder or any Insured Person, including complying with the
b. Must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, following steps, shall be
adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, duration,
the condition precedent to the admissibility of the Claim. Upon the
or intensity;
happening of any accident / Injury that may give rise to a Claim
c. Must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner; under this Policy, then as a condition precedent to the
admissibility of the Claim, the Policyholder/ Insured Person / legal
d. Must conform to the professional standards widely accepted
heir shall undertake the
in international medical practice or by the medical
community in India. Following:
'Reasonable & Customary charges' means the charges for 1. Claims Intimation:
services or supplies, which are the standard charges for the
In the event of accident or Injury which has resulted in a
specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the
Claim or may result in a Claim covered under the Policy, the
geographical area of identical or similar services, taking into
Policyholder/Insured Person / legal heir must notify to the
account the nature of the injury involved.
Company either at the call center or in writing immediately. In
Special Exclusions case of death, written notice of the death must, unless
reasonable cause is shown, be so given before internment /
PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT the Company shall not be liable
cremation, and in any case, within one calendar month after
under this policy for:
the death, and in the event of loss of sight or amputation of
limb(s), written notice thereof must be given within one
1. Death or disablement resulting directly or indirectly caused
calendar month after such loss of sight or amputation. The
by, contributed to or aggravated or prolonged by childbirth or
following details are to be provided to the Company at the
from pregnancy or in consequence thereof.
time of Intimation of Claim:
2. Compensation under more than one of the foregoing
a. Policy Number
Clauses in respect of the same period of disablement of the
Insured Person.
b. Name of the Policyholder
3. Any other payment to the same person after a claim under
c. Name of the Insured Person in whose relation the Claim
one of the foregoing Clauses (a), (b) or (d) has been admitted
is being lodged
and become payable save for payments under medical
expenses extension and for carriage of dead body. d. Nature of accident / Injury
4. Any payment in case of more than one claim in respect of e. Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner
such Insured Person under the policy during any one period and Hospital
of insurance by which the maximum liability of the Company
f. Date of accident
specified in the Schedule applicable to such Insured Person
would exceed the sum payable under the foregoing Clause
g. Any other information as requested by the Company
(a) of this policy to such Insured Person. This would not apply
to payments made under medical expenses extension and
2. Claims Procedure
for carriage of dead body.
The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall be required to submit
5. Payment of weekly compensation until the total amount shall
the documents as mentioned in Clause 4 of this section.
have been ascertained and agreed.
3. Policyholder's / Insured Person's duty at the time of Claim
6. Payment of compensation in respect of death, injury or
disablement of the Insured Person (a) from intentional self- a) The Policyholder / Insured Person must take reasonable
injury, suicide or attempted suicide, (b) whilst under the steps or measure to avoid or minimize the quantum of
influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs (c) whilst engaging in any Claim that may be made under this Policy.
aviation or ballooning whilst mounting into, dismounting from
b) Forthwith intimate / file / submit a Claim in accordance
or travelling in any aircraft or balloon other than as a
with Clause 1 and 3 of this section.
passenger (fare paying) in any duly licensed standard type of
aircraft anywhere in the world, (d) directly or indirectly
c) If so requested by the Company, the Insured Person will
caused by venereal diseases, AIDS or insanity, (e) arising or
have to submit himself for a medical examination by the
resulting from the Insured Person committing any breach of
Company's nominated Medical Practitioner as often as
law with criminal intent.
it considers reasonable and necessary. The cost of such
examination will be borne by the Company.
'Standard type of aircraft' means any aircraft duly licensed to
carry passengers (for hire or otherwise) by an appropriate
31 32
d) Proof satisfactory to the Company shall be furnished on In the event of any such withdrawal of product/terms of
all matters upon which a claim is based. Any Medical or policy, premium the company would give a 3 months notice in
other agent of the Company shall be allowed to examine advance to the policyholder.
the Insured Person on the occasion of any alleged injury
In the event of any revision or modification of the product the
or disablement when and so often as the same may
company will notify the policyholder in advance of such
reasonably be required on behalf of the Company. On
changes.
occurrence of an event which will lead to a Claim under
this Policy, the Policyholder/ Insured Person shall:
3. Payment of Interest
i) Allow the Medical Practitioner or any of the
In the event of delay in settlement of claim beyond the period
Company's representatives to inspect the any
as specified by the Insurance Regulatory Development
relevant document pertaining to the injury/
Authority of India (IRDA)the Company shall be liable to pay
accident/incident, medical and hospitalization
interest as per the rate as defined by IRDA's Protection of
records, investigate the facts and examine the
Policy Holder Interest Regulation.
Insured Person.
Section XI (a & B) - Legal Liability
ii) Assist and not hinder or prevent the Company's
representatives in pursuance of their duties for
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of sums which
ascertaining the admissibility of the Claim under the
the Insured shall become legally liable to pay (subject to the sum
Policy. If the Policyholder / Insured Person / legal
set in the Schedule).
heir does not comply with the provisions of these
conditions all benefits under this Policy shall be Sub-section XI A - Towards Employees
forfeited at the Company's option. (domestic Servants):
4. Claim Documents This Sub-section covers Insured's legal liability to domestic
servants under Fatal Accidents Act, 1855/ Employee's
The Policyholder / Insured Person /Nominee /Legal Heir
Compensation Act, 1923 or any amendments thereto and in
shall submit to the Company the following documents for or
Common Law to pay compensation in respect of accidental death
in support of the Claim:
or injury sustained during the Currency of the policy arising out of
and in the course of employment in India with the Insured. In
a. Death Certificate ( in case of Death Claim)
addition to compensation as stated above, the Company will also
pay claimant's cost fees and expenses and defense costs
b. Disability Certificate ( in case of Disability Claim)
incurred with its consent in defending a claim.
c. Duly completed and signed Claim Form, in original
Sub-section XI B - Towards Third Parties:
d. Medical Practitioner's referral letter advising
This Sub-section covers Insured's legal liability to pay
Hospitalization
compensation including claimant's costs, fees and expenses
e. Medical Practitioner's prescription advising drugs/ incurred with the consent of the Company, anywhere in India, in
diagnostic tests / consultation accordance with Indian Law. The liability of the Company under
this Sub-section in respect of compensation and litigation
f. Original bills, receipts and discharge card from the
expenses is limited to the sum specified in the Schedule hereto
Hospital/Medical Practitioner
for any one accident and for all accidents during any one period of
insurance.
g. First Information Report/ Final Police Report
The indemnity under this Sub-section only applies to
h. Post mortem report, if available
compensation and litigation expenses incurred by the Insured
with the Company's written consent in respect of accidental death
i. Any other document as required by the Company to
of or bodily injury to any person other than a person in the
assess the Claim.
Insured's service and/or accidental damage to property caused
Special Terms Applicable to PA section by or through the fault or negligence of the Insured or of any
member of the Insured's family or household permanently
1. Records to be maintained
residing with the Insured.
The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall keep an accurate
Special Exceptions
record containing all relevant accident / injury records and
The Company shall not liable in respect of:
shall allow the Company or its representative(s) to inspect
such records. The Policyholder/ Insured Person shall furnish
1. Any compensation for death of or bodily injury to any
such information as the Company may require under this
member of the Insured's family or damage to property
Policy at any time during the Policy Period and up to three
belonging to or in the custody or the control of the Insured or
years after the policy expiration, or until final adjustment (if
any member of the Insured's family.
any) and resolution of all Claims under this Policy.
2. Liability assumed by the Insured by agreement unless such
2. Withdrawal / Revision / Modification of the Product
liability would have attached to the Insured notwithstanding
such agreement.
The Company reserves the right to withdraw, revise or
modify this product /policy in the future. The
3. Accidents, directly or indirectly, caused by, traceable to or
revision/modification may be in respect of Benefits,
arising out of the ownership, possession or the custody by or
coverage, premiums, policy terms and conditions &/or
on behalf of the Insured of animals, vehicles, aircraft, ship,
exclusions.
boats or crafts of any kind.
33 34
General Conditions And Exceptions Applicable To All (ii) If the Insured Person shall sustain any bodily injury in
Sections respect of which a claim is or may be made hereunder
prompt written notice thereof shall be given to the
a. General Conditions
Company as soon as possible but in any event within
1. Notice: Every notice and communication to the Company fourteen days of the date of injury. If the Insured Person
required by this policy shall be in writing and be addressed to shall die, notice of death shall be given by the legal
the nearest office of the Company. representative(s) forthwith. All certificates, information
and evidence whether from a Medical Attendant or
2. Misdescription: This policy shall be void and all premium
otherwise required by the Company shall be furnished
paid shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of
at the expense of the Insured or his legal
misrepresentation, misdescription or non-disclosure of any
representatives and shall be in such form and of such
material particulars.
nature as the Company may prescribe. The Insured
Person must immediately after the occurrence of any
3. Reasonable Care: The Insured shall take all reasonable
accident which may be the subject of a claim hereunder
steps to safeguard the property insured against any loss or
obtain medical treatment failing which the company will
damage.
not be liable for any consequence thereof.
4. Cancellation: The Company may at any time, cancel this
(iii) The Insured shall forward to the Company forthwith
policy, by giving 7 days notices in writing by Regd. A/D. to the
every written notice or information of any verbal notice
Insured at his last known address in which case the
of claim and shall send to the Company any writ,
Company shall return to the Insured a proportion of the last
summons or other legal process issued or commenced
premium corresponding to the unexpired period of
against the Insured and shall give all necessary
insurance.
information and assistance to enable the Company to
settle or resist any claim or to institute proceedings. The
The Insured may also give 7 days notice in writing, to the
Insured shall not incur any expenses in making good
Company, for the cancellation of this policy, in which case
any claim without the written consent of the Company
Company shall retain premium for the period this policy has
and shall not negotiate, pay, settle, admit or repudiate
been in force at the Company's short period scales (Table
any claim without such consent.
given here below), provided no claim has occurred up to the
date of cancellation of this policy.
6. Contribution: if at the time of happening of any loss or
damage covered by this policy there shall be existing any
Table of Short Period Scales
other insurance covering the same property insured,
Period of Risk Premium to be retained whether effected by the Insured or not then the Company
(Not exceeding) (% of the Annual Rate) shall not be liable to pay or contribute more than its ratable
proportion of any loss or damage. However, this condition
1 Week 10%
shall not have any effect on Section X-Personal Accident of
the policy.
1 Month 25%
7. Fraud: if any claim under this policy shall be in any respect
2 Months 35%
fraudulent or if any fraudulent means or device are used by
the Insured or by any one acting on the Insured's behalf to
3 Months 50%
obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits under the
4 Months 60% policy shall be forfeited.
6 Months 75% 8. Indemnity: The Company may at its option reinstate,
replace or repair the property or premises lost or damaged or
8 Months 85%
any part thereof instead of paying the amount of loss or
damage or may join with any other insurer in so doing but the
Exceeding 8 Months Full Annual Premium
Company shall not be bound to reinstate exactly or
completely but only as circumstances permit and in
5. Claims Procedure:
reasonably sufficient manner and in no case shall the
(i) The Insured shall upon the occurrence of any event
Company be bound to expend more in reinstatement than it
giving rise or likely to give rise to a claim under this
would have cost to reinstate such property as it was at the
policy:
time of occurrence of such loss or damage not more than the
sum insured thereon.
a. In the event of theft lodge forthwith a complaint with
the Police and take all practicable steps to
9. Average: if the property hereby insured shall at the time of
apprehend the guilty person or persons and to
any loss or damage be collectively of greater value than the
recover the property lost.
sum insured thereon, then the Insured shall be considered
as being his own insurer for the difference and shall bear a
b. Give immediate notice thereof to the Company and
ratable proportion of the loss or damage accordingly. Every
shall within fourteen (14) days thereafter furnish to
item, if more than one, in the policy shall be separately
the Company at his own expense detailed
subject to this condition.
particulars of the amount of the loss or damage
together with such explanations and evidence to
10. Arbitration: If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the
substantiate the claim as the Company may
quantum to be paid under this policy (liability being otherwise
reasonably require.
admitted) such difference shall independently of all other
questions be referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be
c. Tender to the Company all reasonable information,
appointed in writing by the parties thereto or if they cannot
assistance and proof in connection with any claim.
35 36
agree upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of any party Post/Courier : A n y b r a n c h o f f i c e , t h e
invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of correspondence address, during
three arbitrators, comprising of two arbitrators, one to be normal business hours
appointed by each of the parties to the dispute/difference
Write to us at : Reliance General Insurance,
and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such two
(Correspondence Only) Correspondence Unit, 301-302,
arbitrators and the arbitration shall be conducted under and
Corporate House RNT Marg, Opp.
in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and
Jhabua Tower, Indore, Madhya
Conciliation Act, 1996. Pradesh, India – 452001
It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or
For further details on Grievance redressal procedure please
dispute shall be referable to arbitration as herein before
refer: https://reliancegeneral.co.in/Insurance/About-
provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted
Us/Grievance-Redressal.aspx
liability under or in respect of this policy.
If the Policyholder is not satisfied with the Company's redressal
The Company agrees and undertakes to indemnify the
of the Policyholder's grievance through one of the above
Insured against any loss of or damage to property or any part
methods, the Policyholder may approach the nearest Insurance
thereof suffered by the Insured not exceeding the sum
Ombudsman for resolution of the grievance.The contact details
insured stated against each item or total sum insured stated
of Ombudsman offices are mentioned below:
in the Schedule, as the case may be, under this policy
provided the Company is bound and liable to indemnify the
Insured in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
policy only and only if the Insured makes a demand or claim
on the Company in writing within 12 (twelve) months of the
occurrence of any event giving rise to a claim
hereunder.
11. Observation of Terms and Conditions: The due
observance and fulfillment of the terms, conditions and
endorsements of this policy insofar as they relate to anything
to be done or complied with by the Insured shall be a
condition precedent to any liability of the Company to make
any payment under this policy.
b. General Exceptions
The Company shall not be liable in respect of:
1. Loss, damage, liability or expenses, whether direct or
indirect occasioned by happening through or arising from
any consequences of war, invasion, act of foreign enemy,
hostilities (whether war be declared or not) civil war,
rebellion, revolution, insurrection military or usurped power
or civil commotion or loot or pillage in connection therewith.
2. Loss or damage caused by depreciation or wear and tear.
3. Consequential loss of any kind or description.
a) Loss or damage, directly or indirectly, caused by or
arising from or in consequence of or contributed to by
nuclear weapons material.
b) Loss or damage, directly or indirectly, caused by or
arising from or in consequence of or contributed to by
ionizing radiations or contamination by radioactivity
from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste from the
combustion of nuclear fuel. For this purpose only
combustion shall include any self-sustaining process of
nuclear fission.
Grievances
If the Policyholder has a grievance that the Policyholder wishes
the Company to redress, the Policyholder may contact the
Company with the details of his grievance through:
Website : https://reliancegeneral.co.in
e-mail : rgicl.services@relianceada.com
Telephone : 1800-3009
37 38
Ombudsman Office Ombudsman Office
Areas of Office of the Insurance Ombudsman Areas of Office of the Insurance Ombudsman
Jurisdiction Jurisdiction
Gujarat, 2nd floor, Ambica House, Near C.U. Rajasthan Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,
UT of Dadra & Shah College,5,Navyug Colony, Ashram Bhawani Singh Marg,
Nagar Haveli, Road, Ahmedabad – 380 001. Jaipur - 302 005. Daman and Diu Tel.: 079 – 27546150/27546139 Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Fax: 079-27546142 Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in
Kerala, UT of (a) 2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,
Karnataka Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-
Lakshadweep, Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,
N-19 Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main
(b) Mahe-a part Ernakulam - 682 015. Road, JP Nagar, Ist Phase,
of UT of Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338
Bengaluru – 560 078. Pondicherry. Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in
West Bengal, Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,
Madhya Pradesh Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,
UT of 4, C.R. Avenue,
Chattisgarh 6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,
Andaman & KOLKATA - 700 072. Near New Market,
Nicobar Islands, Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340
Bhopal – 462 003. Sikkim Fax : 033 - 22124341
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in
Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in
Districts of Uttar Lucknow
Pradesh: 6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,
Odhisa 62, Forest park, Bhubneshwar
Laitpur, Jhansi, Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,
– 751 009. Mahoba, Lucknow - 226 001. Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Hamirpur, Banda, Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Chitrakoot, Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Email: imalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in
Allahabad, Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in
Mirzapur,
Punjab, S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,
Sonbhabdra,
Haryana, Batra Building, Sector 17 – D,
Fatehpur,
Himachal Chandigarh – 160 017. Pratapgarh,
Pradesh, Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468
Jaunpur,Varanasi
Jammu & Fax: 0172 - 2708274
, Gazipur, Jalaun,
Kashmir, Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in
Kanpur, Lucknow,
UT of Chandigarh
Unnao, Sitapur,
Lakhimpur,
Tamil Nadu,UT- Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,
Bahraich,
Pondicherry Town Anna Salai, Teynampet,
Barabanki,
and CHENNAI – 600 018. Raebareli,
Karaikal (which Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Sravasti, Gonda,
are part of UT of Fax: 044 - 24333664
Faizabad,
Pondicherry) Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in
Amethi,
Kaushambi,
Delhi 2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,
Balrampur, Basti,
Asaf Ali Road,
Ambedkarnagar,
New Delhi – 110 002. Sultanpur,
Tel.: 011 - 23239633 / 23237532
Maharajgang,
Fax: 011 - 23230858
Santkabirnagar,
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in
Azamgarh,
Kushinagar,
Assam, Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,
Gorkhpur, Deoria,
Meghalaya, Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,
Mau, Ghazipur,
Manipur, Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).
Chandauli, Ballia,
Mizoram, Tel.: 0361 - 2132204 / 2132205
Sidharathnagar.
Fax: 0361 - 2732937
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in
Goa, 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,
Mumbai S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),
Andhra Pradesh, 6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",
Metropolitan Mumbai - 400 054. Telangana and Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,
Region Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
UT of Yanam- a A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
excluding Navi Fax: 022 - 26106052
part of UT of Hyderabad - 500 004. Mumbai & Thane Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in
Pondicherry. Tel.: 040 - 65504123 / 23312122
Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in
39 40
ii. When We pay the amount to the Bank, Our liability under this
Ombudsman Office
Policy will be discharged, and will be binding on all of You
and all persons named as the insured.
Areas of Office of the Insurance Ombudsman
Jurisdiction
iii. Any notice or communication We make to the Bank under
the provisions of this P olicy shall be sufficient notice or
State of Bhagwan Sahai Palace
communication to You.
Uttaranchal and 4th Floor, Main Road,
the following Naya Bans, Sector 15, iv. Any settlement or compromise that We make with the Bank
Districts of Uttar Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,
will be binding on You and all persons named as the insured.
Pradesh: U.P-201301. However such settlement or compromise will not affect the
Agra, Aligarh, Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 /
rights of the Bank to recover any amount from You or any
Bagpat, Bareilly, 2514253
other person.
Bijnor, Budaun, Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in
Bulandshehar, v. If You make any change in the use of the Insured Property or
Etah, Kanooj, Your Premises, or sell or transfer the Insured Property, such
Mainpuri, actions will not prejudice the interest of the Bank under the
Mathura, Meerut, Policy and this Clause, unless the condition has been
Moradabad, broken by the Bank or its employees.
Muzaffarnagar,
Oraiyya, Pilibhit, vi. If You commit any act or omission that will increase the risk,
Etawah, the insurance cover will not be invalidated. However, the
Farrukhabad, Bank shall notify Us of any change or ownership, or
Firozbad, alterations and increase in risks as soon they become
Gautambodhana known to the Bank, and shall pay additional premium from
gar, Ghaziabad, the time of such change.
Hardoi,
vii. When We pay the amount to the Bank, We will become
Shahjahanpur,
legally and automatically subrogated to all rights of the Bank
Hapur, Shamli,
to the extent of such payment. This will not impair or
Rampur,
prejudice the rights of the Bank to recover any amount from
Kashganj,
Sambhal, You or any other person.
Amroha, Hathras,
N.B: The Bank shall mean the first named Financial
Kanshiramnagar,
Institution/Bank named in the policy.
Saharanpur.
Bihar, 1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,,
Jharkhand. Bazar Samiti Road,
Bahadurpur,
Patna 800 006. Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in
Maharashtra, Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,
Area of Navi C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,
Mumbai and N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,
Thane excluding Pune – 411 030. Mumbai Tel.: 020-41312555
Metropolitan Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in
Region.
Standard Special Clause
Agreed Bank Clause
If You have mortgaged, hypothecated or created any security
over any Insured Property in favour of a Bank, and the Bank has
an interest in the Policy, the name of such Bank will also be shown
in the Policy Schedule under the title ‘Agreed Bank Clause’. If You
choose to add the name of such Bank at any time during the
Policy Period, this will be shown as an Endorsement. In this
Clause, the word ‘Bank’ includes any financial institution.
Under this Clause, You agree as follows:
I. We shall pay to the Bank the entire amount that We are
liable to pay under this Policy. Such Bank will receive it for its
own demand, and as agent for any other person interested
in the amount.
41 42