CLAUSE 2: N
============================================================
Type: rent
Risk Level: high
Word Count: 1524
------------------------------------------------------------

omination for this Policy
scheme in respect of the damage described above, this
You can nominate a person to receive the claim amount
Policy shall be excess of any recovery due from such plan
under this Policy in the event of Your death. You can
or scheme.
make such nomination at the time You take the Policy, or
For the purpose of the aforesaid inclusion clause, "Military
later. You can also change the nomination at any time.
Authority" shall mean armed forces, para military forces,
You can make the nomination on Our nomination form
police or any other authority constituted by the government
available in Our office or from Our website:
for maintaining law and order.
www.reliancegeneral.co.in.
15 16
13. loss or increased cost as a result of threat or hoax;
B.L OSSES EXCLUDED
14. loss or damage caused by or arising out of burglary, house
This cover shall not indemnify loss of or damage to property
- breaking, looting, theft, larceny or any such attempt or
caused by any or all of the following:- A
any omission of any kind of any person (whether or not
1. loss by seizure or legal or illegal occupation;
such act is committed in the course of a disturbance of
public peace) in any action taken in respect of an act of
2. loss or damage caused by:
terrorism; R
(i) voluntary abandonment or vacation,
15. loss or damage caused by mysterious disappearance or
(ii) confiscation, commandeering, nationalization,
unexplained loss;
requisition, detention, embargo, quarantine, or any
16. loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by mould,
result of any order of public or government authority,
mildew, fungus, spores or other micro-organism of
which deprives the Insured of the use or value of its
any type, nature or description, including but not limited to
property;
any substance whose presence poses an actual or
3. loss or damage arising from acts of contraband or illegal
potential threat to human health;
transportation or illegal trade;
17. total or partial cessation of work or the retardation or
4. loss or damage directly or indirectly arising from or in
interruption or cessation of any process or operations or
consequence of the seepage and or discharge of
omissions of any kind
pollutants or contaminants, which pollutants and
C. LIMIT OF INDEMNITY
contaminants shall include but not be limited to any solid,
liquid, gaseous or thermal irritant, contaminant or toxic or
The limit of indemnity under this cover shall not exceed the
hazardous substance or any substance the presence,
Total Sum Insured given in the Policy Schedule or INR
existence or release of which endangers or threatens to
2,000,00,00,000 per compound/location whichever is
endanger the health, safety or welfare of persons or the
lower.
environment;
In respect of terrorism cover for dwellings, limit of
5. loss or damage arising directly or indirectly from or in
indemnity shall not exceed Total Sum Insured as
consequence of chemical or biological emission, release,
mentioned in the Policy Schedule or INR 400,00,00,000
discharge, dispersal or escape or chemical or biological
per compound/ location whichever is lower.
exposure of any kind;
In respect of several locations being covered under a
6. loss or damage arising directly or indirectly from or in
single policy on a floater basis, the maximum aggregate
consequence of asbestos emission, release, discharge,
loss suffered from all the locations mentioned in the Policy
dispersal or escape or asbestos exposure of any kind;
schedule shall not exceed Total Sum Insured as
mentioned in the Policy Schedule or Rs. 2,000,00,00,000
7. any fine, levy, duty, interest or penalty or cost or
/- whichever is lower.
compensation/damages and/or other assessment which is
incurred by the Insured or which is imposed by any court,
In respect of several insurance policies within the same
government agency, public or civil authority or any other
compound/location with one or different insurers, the
person;
maximum aggregate loss payable per compound/location
by any one or all insurers shall be INR 2,000,00,00,000. If
8. loss or damage by electronic means including but not
the actual aggregate loss suffered at one compound/
limited to computer hacking or the introduction of any
location is more than INR 2,000,00,00,000 the amounts
form of computer virus or corrupting or unauthorized
payable towards individual policies shall be reduced in
instructions or code or the use of any electromagnetic
proportion to the sum insured of the policies.
weapon. This exclusion shall not operate to exclude
losses (which would otherwise be covered under this
D. EXCESS*
Policy) arising from the use of any computer, computer
Shops & Residential Risks : 1% of the claim amount for
system or computer software programme or any other
each and every claim subject to Minimum of INR 10,000
electronic system in the launch and/or guidance system
and Maximum of INR 500,000
and/or firing mechanism of any weapon or missile;
Non-Industrial Risks : 1% of the claim amount for each and
9. loss or damage caused by vandals or other persons
every claim subject to Minimum of INR 25,000 and
acting maliciously or by way of protest or strikes, labour
Maximum of INR 1,000,000
unrest, riots or civil commotion;
Industrial Risks : 5% of the claim amount for each and
10. loss or increased cost occasioned by any public or
every claim subject to Minimum of INR 100,000 and
government or local or civil authority's enforcement of any
Maximum of INR 25,00,000.
ordinance or law regulating the reconstruction, repair or
demolition of any property insured hereunder; *Whichever is applicable
11. any consequential loss or damage, loss of use, delay or E. ADD ON COVERS
loss of markets, loss of income, depreciation, reduction in
It is further declared and agreed that the limit of indemnity
functionality, or increased cost of working;
including the claim on add on cover(s) shall not exceed
12. loss or damage caused by factors including but not limited total sum insured plus separate sublimit opted for add on
to cessation, fluctuation or variation in, or insufficiency of, cover(s) or INR 2,000,00,00,000 whichever is lower. In
water, gas or electricity supplies and telecommunications respect of several insurance policies with in the same
or any type of service; compound /location, the maximum aggregate loss
17 18
reinstatement value or market value as defined under Section I
payable per compound/location by any one or all insurers
of the policy, as opted by the Insured.
shall be INR 2,000,00,00,000. In respect of terrorism cover for long term dwellings, limit Basis of Indemnity
of indemnity including the claim on add on cover(s) shall
- The indemnity shall be on the basis of reinstatement value
not exceed total sum insured plus separate sublimit opted
or market value as opted by the Insured.
for add on cover(s) or INR 400,00,00,000/- whichever is
lower. In respect of several insurance policies within the
- In the event of property insured being damaged by any of
same compound/location, the maximum aggregate loss
the insured perils, the Company shall pay for the amount of
payable per compound/location by any one or all insurers
damage or loss or at its option replace or repair the
shall be INR 400,00,00,000/-.
damaged property.
F. MID TERM COVER
- If the property hereby insured shall, at the commencement
In case the coverage under this endorsement is granted of any destruction of or damage to the property by any of the
during the currency of the policy, no claims will be insured perils be collectively of greater value than the sum
insured thereon, then the Insured shall be considered as
payable for loss or damage to property caused by an act
being his own insurer for the difference and shall bear a A
of terrorism occurring during the first 15 (fifteen) days
ratable portion of the loss accordingly.
from the date of granting such cover.
G. SANCTION, LIMITATION AND EXCLUSION CLAUSE Provided, however, that if the sum insured hereby on the
property insured shall at the breaking out of such fire or at R
No (re)insurer shall be deemed to provide cover and no
the commencement of such destruction or damage be not
(re)insurer shall be liable to pay any claim or provide any
less than 85% (eighty five percent) of the collective value of
benefit hereunder to the extent that the provision of such
the property insured, clause 3 of Basis of Indemnity under
cover, payment of such claim or provision of such benefit
this Section shall not apply, notwithstanding anything to the
would expose that (re)insurer to any sanction, prohibition
contrary contained in the policy.
or restriction under United Nations resolutions or the trade
or economic sanctions, laws or regulations of the Special Exceptions
European Union, United Kingdom or United States of
The Company shall not by liable in respect of loss or damage:-
America.
1. By burglary and/or housebreaking or theft where any
H. CANCELLATION CLAUSE
member of the Insured's family is concerned as principal or
Notwithstanding the cancellation provisions relating to the
accessory
basic insurance policy on which this endorsement is
issued, there shall be no refund of premium allowed for 2. To livestock, motor vehicles and pedal cycles
cancellation of the Terrorism risk insurance during the