CLAUSE 8: R
============================================================
Type: rent
Risk Level: high
Word Count: 4069
------------------------------------------------------------

ecovery action by Us
ii. You must state in Your claim the details of any other
insurance policy that covers the damage or loss for a. When We accept and pay Your claim under the Policy, We
which You have filed Your claim, whether You have can start legal proceedings to recover the amount or
13 14
property from the third party who has caused the loss or 3. Applicable law and jurisdiction
damage to Your Home Building or Home Contents. You
This Policy will be subject to the laws of India, and to the
must give authority to Us to take such action and exercise
jurisdiction of courts in India.
this right effectively, when We request You, whether
4. Arbitration
before or after making payment of Your claim. You must
give all information, cooperation, assistance and help for
If any dispute or difference arises between You and Us
this purpose. You must not do anything which will
regarding the amount of claim to be paid under this policy
prejudice Our right. We can do this
(liability having been admitted by Us), such difference shall
independently of all other questions, be referred to the
i. without seeking Your consent,
decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by
ii. in Your name, and You and Us or if You and We cannot agree upon a single
arbitrator within 30 days of either of Us opting for
iii. whether or not Your loss has been fully compensated.
arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three
b. Any amount We recover from such person will be applied
arbitrators comprising of two arbitrators, one to be
first to the costs of the legal proceedings and recovery,
appointed by each of Us, to the dispute/difference and the
then to the claim amount We have paid or must pay to
third arbitrator to be appointed by two such arbitrators and
You. We will pay You any balance.
arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance
c. You can start legal proceedings against any person who with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act,
has caused the loss or damage only with Our prior 1996 Clauses.
consent, and on conditions that We will impose. You must
Terrorism Damage Cover Endorsement (Material Damage
not compromise or settle any claim against such person
only)
without Our consent. If You recover any amount from
such person, You must return to Us the amount We have
A. INSURING CLAUSE
paid for Your claim. We can take over the conduct of legal
Subject otherwise to the terms, exclusions, provisions and
proceedings that You have started and continue the
conditions contained in the Policy and in consideration of
proceedings in Your name.
the payment by the insured to the Company of additional
Clause H. Changes to covers
premium as stated in the Schedule, it is hereby agreed
a. You can choose to make changes to the covers of this and declared that notwithstanding anything stated in the
Policy as may be permitted by Us, or increase or reduce "Terrorism Risk Exclusion" of this Policy to the contrary,
any Sum Insured. You must make a proposal or request this Policy is extended to cover physical loss or physical
for any change. It will be effective only after We have damage occurring during the period of this Policy caused
accepted Your proposal, and You have paid the additional by an act of terrorism to the location/s mentioned in the
premium, where applicable. schedule subject to the exclusions, limits and excess
described hereinafter.
b. This Policy (including the Policy Schedule, the proposal,
declarations and Endorsements) consists of the entire For the purpose of this cover, an act of terrorism means an
contract between You and Us. act or series of acts, including but not limited to the use of
force or violence and/or the threat thereof, of any person
Clause I. Waiver of Underinsurance
or group(s) of persons, whether acting alone or on behalf
of or in connection with any organization(s) or
Underinsurance does not apply to Thus, if Your Sum
government(s), or unlawful associations, recognized under
Insured calculated on the basis of the information that You
Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act, 2008 or
provided, is less than the actual value at risk, the
any other related and applicable national or state
difference will not affect the amount We pay.
legislation formulated to combat unlawful and terrorist
Clause J. Other Details
activities in the nation for the time being in force,
committed for political, religious, ideological or similar
1. Notices
purposes including the intention to influence any
a. We will send any notice, letter or communication in writing
government and/or to put the public or any section of the
to You at Your address mentioned in the Policy Schedule,
public in fear for such purposes.
and to Your email address that You have registered with
This cover also includes loss, damage, cost or expense
Us.
directly caused by, resulting from or in connection with any
b. You will sd any notice, letter, intimation or communication
action taken in suppressing, controlling, preventing or
minimizing the consequences of an act of terrorism by the
in writing to Us at Our branch office where You purchased
duly empowered government or Military Authority.
this Policy. You can also send it at the address mentioned
in the Policy Schedule.
Provided that If the Insured is eligible for indemnity under
any government compensation plan or other similar
2. Nomination for this Policy
scheme in respect of the damage described above, this
You can nominate a person to receive the claim amount
Policy shall be excess of any recovery due from such plan
under this Policy in the event of Your death. You can
or scheme.
make such nomination at the time You take the Policy, or
For the purpose of the aforesaid inclusion clause, "Military
later. You can also change the nomination at any time.
Authority" shall mean armed forces, para military forces,
You can make the nomination on Our nomination form
police or any other authority constituted by the government
available in Our office or from Our website:
for maintaining law and order.
www.reliancegeneral.co.in.
15 16
13. loss or increased cost as a result of threat or hoax;
B.L OSSES EXCLUDED
14. loss or damage caused by or arising out of burglary, house
This cover shall not indemnify loss of or damage to property
- breaking, looting, theft, larceny or any such attempt or
caused by any or all of the following:- A
any omission of any kind of any person (whether or not
1. loss by seizure or legal or illegal occupation;
such act is committed in the course of a disturbance of
public peace) in any action taken in respect of an act of
2. loss or damage caused by:
terrorism; R
(i) voluntary abandonment or vacation,
15. loss or damage caused by mysterious disappearance or
(ii) confiscation, commandeering, nationalization,
unexplained loss;
requisition, detention, embargo, quarantine, or any
16. loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by mould,
result of any order of public or government authority,
mildew, fungus, spores or other micro-organism of
which deprives the Insured of the use or value of its
any type, nature or description, including but not limited to
property;
any substance whose presence poses an actual or
3. loss or damage arising from acts of contraband or illegal
potential threat to human health;
transportation or illegal trade;
17. total or partial cessation of work or the retardation or
4. loss or damage directly or indirectly arising from or in
interruption or cessation of any process or operations or
consequence of the seepage and or discharge of
omissions of any kind
pollutants or contaminants, which pollutants and
C. LIMIT OF INDEMNITY
contaminants shall include but not be limited to any solid,
liquid, gaseous or thermal irritant, contaminant or toxic or
The limit of indemnity under this cover shall not exceed the
hazardous substance or any substance the presence,
Total Sum Insured given in the Policy Schedule or INR
existence or release of which endangers or threatens to
2,000,00,00,000 per compound/location whichever is
endanger the health, safety or welfare of persons or the
lower.
environment;
In respect of terrorism cover for dwellings, limit of
5. loss or damage arising directly or indirectly from or in
indemnity shall not exceed Total Sum Insured as
consequence of chemical or biological emission, release,
mentioned in the Policy Schedule or INR 400,00,00,000
discharge, dispersal or escape or chemical or biological
per compound/ location whichever is lower.
exposure of any kind;
In respect of several locations being covered under a
6. loss or damage arising directly or indirectly from or in
single policy on a floater basis, the maximum aggregate
consequence of asbestos emission, release, discharge,
loss suffered from all the locations mentioned in the Policy
dispersal or escape or asbestos exposure of any kind;
schedule shall not exceed Total Sum Insured as
mentioned in the Policy Schedule or Rs. 2,000,00,00,000
7. any fine, levy, duty, interest or penalty or cost or
/- whichever is lower.
compensation/damages and/or other assessment which is
incurred by the Insured or which is imposed by any court,
In respect of several insurance policies within the same
government agency, public or civil authority or any other
compound/location with one or different insurers, the
person;
maximum aggregate loss payable per compound/location
by any one or all insurers shall be INR 2,000,00,00,000. If
8. loss or damage by electronic means including but not
the actual aggregate loss suffered at one compound/
limited to computer hacking or the introduction of any
location is more than INR 2,000,00,00,000 the amounts
form of computer virus or corrupting or unauthorized
payable towards individual policies shall be reduced in
instructions or code or the use of any electromagnetic
proportion to the sum insured of the policies.
weapon. This exclusion shall not operate to exclude
losses (which would otherwise be covered under this
D. EXCESS*
Policy) arising from the use of any computer, computer
Shops & Residential Risks : 1% of the claim amount for
system or computer software programme or any other
each and every claim subject to Minimum of INR 10,000
electronic system in the launch and/or guidance system
and Maximum of INR 500,000
and/or firing mechanism of any weapon or missile;
Non-Industrial Risks : 1% of the claim amount for each and
9. loss or damage caused by vandals or other persons
every claim subject to Minimum of INR 25,000 and
acting maliciously or by way of protest or strikes, labour
Maximum of INR 1,000,000
unrest, riots or civil commotion;
Industrial Risks : 5% of the claim amount for each and
10. loss or increased cost occasioned by any public or
every claim subject to Minimum of INR 100,000 and
government or local or civil authority's enforcement of any
Maximum of INR 25,00,000.
ordinance or law regulating the reconstruction, repair or
demolition of any property insured hereunder; *Whichever is applicable
11. any consequential loss or damage, loss of use, delay or E. ADD ON COVERS
loss of markets, loss of income, depreciation, reduction in
It is further declared and agreed that the limit of indemnity
functionality, or increased cost of working;
including the claim on add on cover(s) shall not exceed
12. loss or damage caused by factors including but not limited total sum insured plus separate sublimit opted for add on
to cessation, fluctuation or variation in, or insufficiency of, cover(s) or INR 2,000,00,00,000 whichever is lower. In
water, gas or electricity supplies and telecommunications respect of several insurance policies with in the same
or any type of service; compound /location, the maximum aggregate loss
17 18
reinstatement value or market value as defined under Section I
payable per compound/location by any one or all insurers
of the policy, as opted by the Insured.
shall be INR 2,000,00,00,000. In respect of terrorism cover for long term dwellings, limit Basis of Indemnity
of indemnity including the claim on add on cover(s) shall
- The indemnity shall be on the basis of reinstatement value
not exceed total sum insured plus separate sublimit opted
or market value as opted by the Insured.
for add on cover(s) or INR 400,00,00,000/- whichever is
lower. In respect of several insurance policies within the
- In the event of property insured being damaged by any of
same compound/location, the maximum aggregate loss
the insured perils, the Company shall pay for the amount of
payable per compound/location by any one or all insurers
damage or loss or at its option replace or repair the
shall be INR 400,00,00,000/-.
damaged property.
F. MID TERM COVER
- If the property hereby insured shall, at the commencement
In case the coverage under this endorsement is granted of any destruction of or damage to the property by any of the
during the currency of the policy, no claims will be insured perils be collectively of greater value than the sum
insured thereon, then the Insured shall be considered as
payable for loss or damage to property caused by an act
being his own insurer for the difference and shall bear a A
of terrorism occurring during the first 15 (fifteen) days
ratable portion of the loss accordingly.
from the date of granting such cover.
G. SANCTION, LIMITATION AND EXCLUSION CLAUSE Provided, however, that if the sum insured hereby on the
property insured shall at the breaking out of such fire or at R
No (re)insurer shall be deemed to provide cover and no
the commencement of such destruction or damage be not
(re)insurer shall be liable to pay any claim or provide any
less than 85% (eighty five percent) of the collective value of
benefit hereunder to the extent that the provision of such
the property insured, clause 3 of Basis of Indemnity under
cover, payment of such claim or provision of such benefit
this Section shall not apply, notwithstanding anything to the
would expose that (re)insurer to any sanction, prohibition
contrary contained in the policy.
or restriction under United Nations resolutions or the trade
or economic sanctions, laws or regulations of the Special Exceptions
European Union, United Kingdom or United States of
The Company shall not by liable in respect of loss or damage:-
America.
1. By burglary and/or housebreaking or theft where any
H. CANCELLATION CLAUSE
member of the Insured's family is concerned as principal or
Notwithstanding the cancellation provisions relating to the
accessory
basic insurance policy on which this endorsement is
issued, there shall be no refund of premium allowed for 2. To livestock, motor vehicles and pedal cycles
cancellation of the Terrorism risk insurance during the
3. To money, securities for money, stamps, bullion, deeds,
period of insurance except where such cancellation is
bonds, bills of exchange, promissory notes, shares and
done along with the cancellation of the basic insurance.
stock certificates, business books, manuscripts, documents
Where a policy is cancelled and rewritten mid-term purely
of any kind, unset precious stones and jewellery and
for the purpose of coinciding with the accounting year of
valuables, unless separately specified.
the insured, pro-rate refund of the cancelled policy
premium will be allowed.
If the cancellation is for any other purpose, refund of Section III — All Risks (jewellery And Valuables)
premium will only be allowed after charging short term
The Company will indemnify the Insured or any member of the
scale rates.
family in respect of loss or damage to jewellery and valuables
Section II- Burglary And House Breaking Including caused by accident or misfortune whilst anywhere in India.
Provided that the liability of the Company in respect on any one
Larceny Or Theft
item in any one period of insurance will not exceed the sum
Definition
insured set against such item in the Schedule hereto and not
exceeding in the aggregate the total sum insured hereby.
"Contents" mean items of property in the Insured's house
including items of property therein for which the Insured is
Provided further that where damage to any item can be repaired
accountable.
the Company will pay expenses necessarily incurred to restore
the damaged item to its former state of serviceability not
What is covered
exceeding the sum insured in respect of such item.
a) The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss or
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this policy,
damage to contents, by burglary and housebreaking
the condition of average insofar as this Section is concerned
including larceny and theft.
shall not apply.
b) Damage to the Insured's house and/or safe resulting from
Special Exceptions
burglary and/or housebreaking or any attempt thereat
subject to a maximum of 5% of the sum insured under this
The Company shall not be liable in respect of loss or damage
Section. Provided however that no loss under clauses a)
caused by or due to
and b) hereinabove, shall together exceed the sum insured
under this Section.
Sum Insured
The basis of valuation in respect of contents shall be on
19 20
1. Cracking, scratching or breakage of lens or glass whether known to the Insured, regardless of whether such faults, or
part of any equipment or otherwise or to china, marble, defects were known to the Company or not
gramophone records and other articles of brittle or fragile
3. Any fault or defect for which the manufacturer or supplier of
nature unless such loss of damage arises from accident to a
the damaged item is responsible
railway train or ship or aircraft or vehicle by which such
property is being conveyed.
4. Cost of transport to the repair shop and back to the Insured's
premises in respect of any item damaged
2. Moth, mildew, carmine or any process of cleaning, dyeing,
repairing or restoring to which the property is subjected.
5. Perils which are insurable under other Sections of the policy
3. Mechanical derangement or over winding of watches and
6. permanent or temporary dispossession resulting from
clocks.
confiscation, commandeering or requisition by any lawfully
constituted authority of such item or by permanent or
4. Theft from car except from car of fully enclosed salon type
temporary dispossession of any building resulting from the
having all the doors, windows and other openings securely
unlawful occupation by the Insured of the building.
locked and properly fastened.
Excess
5. Whilst being conveyed by any carrier under contract of
affreightrment.
Coverage under this Section is subject to an excess of 1 % of the
sum insured for each item or Rs. 100/- whichever is higher, in
Special Conditions
respect of each and every claim for loss or damage admitted
1. Where any item insured hereunder consists of articles in pair under the policy.
or set the Company's liability in respect thereof shall not
Section V - Domestic Electronic Appliances
exceed the value of any article which may be lost or
damaged without reference to any special value which such
What is covered
article may have as part of such pair or set.
The Company will indemnify the Insured against loss or damage
2. No one article or pair of articles is deemed to be more than
to personal computers (including accessories and printer), other
10% of the sum insured under this Section unless separately
domestic electronic appliances and / or any electronic installation
specified and value stated.
while contained or fixed in the Insured's house due to any cause
other than those specifically excluded.
Section IV- Domestic Mechanical & Electrical Appliances
Sum Insured
The Company will indemnify the Insured against unforeseen and
sudden physical damage caused by and/or solely due to
The sum insured in respect of each item for coverage under this
mechanical and/or electrical breakdown of domestic electrical
Section shall be equal to the cost of replacement of such item by a
arid mechanical appliances, apparatuses or gadgets specified in
new item of the same kind and capacity which shall mean its
the Schedule hereto whilst contained in or fixed in the Insured's
current new replacement cost (CNRV basis).
house. Provided that the liability of the Company in respect of any
one item in any one period of insurance will not exceed the sum
Basis of Indemnity
insured set against such item in the Schedule.
1. Where damage to an insured item can be repaired the
Sum Insured
Company will pay the expenses necessarily incurred to
restore the damaged item to its former state of serviceability
It is a requirement of this insurance that the sum insured in
or pay the actual value of item immediately before
respect of each item specified in the Schedule shall be equal to
occurrence of the loss, if the cost of repair exceeds or equals
the cost of replacement of the insured property by new property of
the actual value of item.
the same kind and capacity (CNRV basis).
2. The Company will also pay cost of dismantling and re-
Basis of Indemnity
erection incurred for the purpose of effecting repairs,
ordinary freight to and from a repair shop and customs duties
a) Where damage to an insured item can be repaired the
and other dues, if any, in the event and to the extent such
Company will pay expenses necessarily incurred to restore
expenses have been included in the sum insured.
the damaged item to its former state of serviceability. If the
cost of repair exceeds the actual value of the insured item
3. No deduction shall be made towards depreciation in respect
immediately before the occurrence of the damage the
of parts replaced except for parts with limited life of use but
settlement shall be made on the basis provided for in clause
the value of salvage will be taken into account. However, in
b) below;
case of payment of total loss of entire equipment, proper
depreciation will be deducted from replacement value of
b) In case of total loss, claims will be paid subject to
items.
depreciation of 10% per year from the date of purchase. The
maximum depreciation however shall not exceed 50% of the
Specific Exclusions
sum insured of any item.
1. Damage caused by any faults or defects existing at the time
Special Conditions
of commencement of present insurance within the
knowledge of Insured or his representatives whether such
The Company shall not be liable in respect of loss or damage
faults or defects were known to the Company or not.
caused by or due to:
2. Willful act or negligence of the Insured or his representative.
1. Willful act or gross negligence of the Insured 2. f a u l t s
existing at the time of commencement of this insurance and
3. Loss arising out of cessation of work whether total or partial.
21 22
4. Derangement of the insured property not accompanied by or damage in any one period of insurance is limited to the amount
damage covered under this policy. specified in the Schedule.
5. Loss of or damage to the property covered under this policy 2) This Section further covers damage to property belonging to
falling under the terms of the Maintenance agreement. Such or in the custody or control of the Insured caused by
exclusions will also apply to parts exchanged in course of breakage or collapse f the antenna fittings or mast forming
such maintenance operations. part of the Television Apparatus in so far as such property is
not otherwise insured provided that the liability of the
6. Damage due to defects of design material or workmanship or
Company in respect of such damage in any one period of
otherwise for which the manufacturer or supplier of the
insurance is limited to Rs. 3,000/- (Rupees three thousand
insured items is responsible either in law or under contract.
only).
7. Damage due to or consequent upon wear and tear, gradual
3) This Section also covers legal liability to pay compensation
deterioration, atmospheric or climatic conditions, rust,
and litigation expenses incurred by the Insured with the
corrosion, moth, vermin or insect.
Company's written consent in respect of accidental death of
or bodily injury to any person other than a member of the
8. Loss due to mysterious disappearance and whilst left in
Insured's family or a person in the Insured's service and or
unattended vehicles in respect of cellular phones, portable
accidental damage to property not belonging to or in the
computers and other mobile equipment.
custody or control of the Insured or any member or the
Insured's family or person in the Insured's service arising out