EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT & GUIDE
Included:
Overview
Dos and Don’ts Checklist
Employment Agreement Instructions
Sample Employment Agreement
© LEGALZOOM.COM, INC. 2008
1. Overview
Having a good start to an employment relationship and making a positive first impression on a new hire
is essential to establishing a productive, successful, and professional workplace. An important part of
this process is creating an employment agreement. There are many advantages to having a well-crafted
employment agreement, the most obvious of which is the legal protection it affords a company or
business. By providing written employment terms—including details of compensation, position, and at-will
status — the company is creating a legal document that, when signed, can prove valuable if disputes occur.
A written agreement lists employment terms, limiting later confusion and disagreement about those
provisions. An express statement of terms not only eliminates ambiguities, but also establishes a
working relationship built on mutual understanding.
This document contains employment agreement essentials, including a standard form that can easily be
revised and used again for the hiring of future employees. If you follow the guidelines provided, you can use
your employment agreement effectively to protect your business and minimize confusion, misunderstanding,
and error. In every way, this promotes a successful work environment and satisfied employees.
2. Dos & Don’ts Checklist
A good employment agreement is one that captures the intentions of the parties accurately.
It’s a good idea to clarify the potential employee’s job duties and responsibilities, and his or her
compensation package, before writing them down.
Historically, only executives and professionals received employment agreements. It was
fairly unusual for lower managers or workers to negotiate and sign such contracts. However,
employment agreements have more recently been used for all new hires at a company. Entering
into contracts with all of your employees may offer long-term protection to both parties.
Do not promise raises, bonuses, or other business perks if those are not guaranteed. Do not include
anything that is not an absolute. Many lawsuits are predicated on misunderstandings related to
expected bonuses. If you have a simple bonus calculation applicable to this employee, include that
information in the agreement.
If the company will reimburse or provide funds for moving expenses, include that information here
and make your language precise.
Regardless of the nature of your arrangement, the employment agreement should be signed before
the employee starts work.
If you revise the enclosed agreement, do not alter the at-will language or insert terms that would
conflict with that language (for example, references to long-term employment). Nothing in this form
or any other writing should contradict your arrangement for at-will employment. Many wrongful
termination cases have been launched on the employee’s mistaken assumption that his or her
employment was for a guaranteed length of time or that they could not be terminated without cause.
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 1
© LEGALZOOM.COM, INC. 2008
A non-disclosure clause in which the employee agrees to keep the company’s private information
private that is effective from the beginning of the employment can protect a company more
thoroughly than one entered at the end of the relationship. A departing employee’s ability to use
confidential information will continue to be effective, and you will not need to negotiate with a
potentially hostile party to ensure this limitation.
If you do include a clause that puts limits on a departing employee’s ability to compete with the
company, make sure the scope and reach of this clause is reasonable. Although some states’
courts enforce these clauses as a matter of course, many others (including California) view them
unfavorably and will not enforce them unless the restrictions are very narrow. There must be
a correlation between the time period for the limitation and the need for the clause. In other
words, this clause can only be for as long it would take for an employer to overcome any potential
competitive disadvantage.
If you want a specific state’s laws to resolve any employment disputes, specify that state in the
employment agreement. Courts will generally honor the parties’ choice of law if the state selected
has a connection to the dispute.
The provisions of an employment agreement will bind your employee strictly only if you follow them
to the letter. In other words, you can enforce its terms against your employee if you do not violate
your own obligations under the agreement. For example, your employee will not be bound by the
terms of a non-competition clause if you try to end the agreement without giving the required notice.
Nothing lasts forever, and this is certainly true of employment. At the end of an employment
relationship, your company should conduct an exit interview, and you should consider putting
this as a requirement in his or her employment agreement. At this meeting, the employee
should be reminded of his or her continuing obligations to the company, including maintaining
the confidentiality of information beyond the termination of the employment period. You can also
use this time to resolve misunderstandings and smooth ruffled feathers, perhaps limiting later
termination-related lawsuits.
Allow the employee to spend time reviewing the agreement. This will reduce the likelihood, or at
least the efficacy, of a claim that he or she did not understand any terms or how those might affect
the agreement as a whole.
Both parties should review the completed document carefully to ensure that all relevant points
have been included. It is better to be over-inclusive than under-inclusive. Do not assume that certain
expectations or terms are agreed to if they are not stated expressly in the document.
Sign two copies of the agreement, one each for you and the other party.
If your agreement is complicated, do not use the enclosed form. Contact an attorney to help you
draft a document that will meet your specific needs.
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 2
© LEGALZOOM.COM, INC. 2008
3. Employment Agreement Instructions
The following provision-by-provision instructions will help you understand the terms of your employment
agreement.
The numbers and letters below (e.g., Section 1, Section 2(a), etc.) correspond to the provisions in the
agreement. Please review the entire document before starting your step-by-step process.
• Introduction of Parties. Identifies the document as an employment agreement. Write in the date on
which the document is effective (usually the date that it is signed). Identify the Parties and, if applicable,
what type of entity the Employer is (e.g., corporation, limited liability company, etc.). Note that each
Party is given a name (e.g., “Employer”) that will be used throughout the Agreement. As you probably
guessed, the Employer is the party that will be hiring the Employee. When the Agreement refers to one
or the other of the individuals (i.e., no one specifically), the term “Parties” is used.
Throughout this Agreement, the Employee is described without designating a gender (i.e., [s]he, [his]
[her], etc.). When you are customizing this document, edit all of these references to match the gender
of the Employee you will be hiring.
• Recitals. The “whereas” clauses, referred to as recitals, define the world of the agreement and
offer key background information about the Parties. In this Agreement, this section includes a simple
statement of the Parties’ intent to enter an employment relationship.
Describe the Employer’s business in detail. Note that this description could have a long-term impact
on both Parties. There are other provisions in this Agreement that restrict the Employee’s ability
to compete with the Employer in its industry after his or her employment ends. If the Employer’s
business is defined too broadly, the Employee might not be able to find any employment at all! Make
sure both Parties agree on the business definition that is provided.
• Section 1: Employment. Confirms the Parties’ agreement to enter an employment relationship.
Note that the employment will be “at will.” This means that it can be ended by either Party at any
time, for no specific reason.
• Section 2: Term. Enter the date on which the Agreement starts. Note that there is no definite
“term” for the relationship. Unless either Party ends the Agreement, it will continue.
• Section 3: Compensation. Sets the Employee’s salary and other benefits to be received in
exchange for his or her work.
(a) Base Salary. Enter the Employee’s annual Salary and an explanation of how this will be paid
(e.g., weekly, bi-monthly, monthly, etc.).
(b) Non-Salary Benefits. This subsection allows you to list any other compensation that the
Employee may receive. For example, if the Employee will receive pension benefits or relocation
expenses as a part of his or her compensation, you can detail those here.
(c) Vacation. Enter the number of paid vacation days that the Employee is entitled to in a given
year.
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 3
© LEGALZOOM.COM, INC. 2008
(d) (Optional) Signing Bonus. An optional provision that requires the Employer to pay the Employee
a certain amount for agreeing to come work at the Employer’s offices. This may be included
in an executive agreement, as an additional incentive for accepting a job. If you include this
subsection, enter the amount of the signing bonus that will be paid and when it will be paid.
Note that if the Employee stops working for the Employer within a certain amount of time, he
or she will be required to pay back this signing bonus. Enter this amount of time in the space
provided.
(e) (Optional) Performance Bonus. An optional provision that rewards the Employee for hitting
certain specified performance goals. According to the terms here, the Employee’s bonus
compensation will be calculated according to the Employer’s bonus plan. Note that most
employment agreements do not include specific information about an employee’s bonus: they
refer to the general plan and leave the details for that document. However, if you want to add
additional provisions about the Employee’s performance bonus, feel free to do so here.
(f) (Optional) Stock Options. An optional provision allowing the Employee to participate in any stock
option plan that the Employer has after a certain number of years. If you want to include this
clause, enter the length of time it will take for the Employee to qualify for this plan.
(g) Other Benefits. A catch-all provision simply stating that the Employee may receive other
benefits of the sort that other employees of his or her position receive.
(h) Withholding. States that the amounts that will be paid to the Employee may have deductions
taken from them to satisfy tax requirements.
• Section 4: Responsibilities and Duties. Describe what the Employee is expected to do as part
of his or her job. This should be as specific as possible, for both Parties’ benefit. For the Employee, it
is important to know what is expected of him or her. For the Employer, defining the Employee’s work
duties will make clear, from an intellectual property perspective, what the Employer can claim to own
under the work-product doctrine (which states that things created in the course of the Employee’s
employment are owned by the Employer).
Write in the location where the Employee will provide his or her Services, which may simply be the
Employer’s main place of business.
• Section 5: Other Employment. During the Employment Period, the Employee is not allowed to
work for other companies. However, he or she can invest in other companies if they don’t require the
Employee’s help to operate.
• Section 6: (Optional) Working Amenities. An optional provision indicating that the Employee
will be given certain extras to create a more comfortable work environment (e.g., a private office,
personal computer, etc.). If you remove this section, correct the section numbers and the references
in the document.
• Section 7: Expenses. If the Employee pays his or her own money to cover any reasonable
expenses relating to official Employer business (e.g., travel expenses, client dinners, etc.), the
Employer promises to reimburse that money. The Employer agrees to provide proof of payment of
these expenses to the Employer’s satisfaction.
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 4
© LEGALZOOM.COM, INC. 2008
• Section 8: Confidentiality. During the Employment Period, the Employee is not allowed to
give any confidential information to outside parties without the Employer’s consent. ”Confidential
information” includes any information about the Employer not generally available to the public.
• Section 9: Non-Solicitation. This provision is meant to prevent the Employee from luring away
key employees or customers from the Employer if it stops working for the Employer. The Employee
may not ask or lure any such individuals to accept positions as employees or clients of the Employee.
This provision lasts only for a certain time after the Employment Period ends. Enter the amount
of time this restriction will last. Make sure this is a reasonable time period: courts may overturn a
provision that is for too long or for too large an area.
• Section 10: (Optional) Non-Competition. An optional provision providing that the Employee
will not enter any business that competes with the Employer for a certain period of time after the end
of the Agreement. This clause is subject to very specific state guidelines. If you live in California or
Montana, you should consider deleting this clause, or conducting additional research to ensure that
the language is drafted very narrowly and according to state law. In addition, non-competition clauses
may be unenforceable for certain professions (e.g., in Delaware and Massachusetts, non-competition
clauses for doctors are generally not allowed).
Enter the amount of time for which this non-competition restriction runs. If you choose not to include
this section, correct the section numbers and the references in the document.
• Section 11: (Optional) Fidelity Bond. A fidelity bond protects employers from losses they might
experience because of their employees’ bad behavior (e.g., theft of company property). If you include
this provision, the Employee will apply for the bond and the Employer will pay for it. If you remove this
section, correct the section numbers and the references in the document.
• Section 12: Termination. Details the circumstances under which the Agreement may be terminated.
Because this Agreement is for “at will” employment, either Party can end the Agreement simply by giving
the other Party a certain amount of notice. Enter the number of days’ notice that must be given. If the
Employer asks, the Employee can continue to work during this notice period and will continue to receive
salary payments until his or her last day of work. There is an optional clause that the Employer can use to
offer the Employee a severance package. If the Employee owes any money to the Employer, the Employer
is given permission to deduct this amount from the pay offered. If you include this sentence, enter the full
amount of the severance pay (not including any deductions that might be made).
• Section 13: Return of Property. This is an extremely important provision, and although it may
seem obvious to you that company property should be returned after an employee’s termination, it
may not be as obvious to your Employee. It is thus essential to communicate your return policy in the
Agreement (and reiterate it in your employee handbook, exit materials, and severance agreements),
stating specifically that employees must return all company property before leaving your employ.
• Section 14: (Optional) Disability. An optional provision providing that if the Employee can’t
perform his or her duties for a certain period of time because of an injury or illness, the Employer can
reduce his or her salary by a specific percentage. Enter this amount of time (in weeks or months), and
the percentage by which the Salary would be decreased. Note that the Employee will be entitled to
full Salary once he or she goes back to work full-time. The Employer can end the Agreement entirely if
the Employee’s absence is for longer than a certain period. Enter this maximum in the space provided.
If you remove this section, correct the section numbers and the references in the document
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 5
© LEGALZOOM.COM, INC. 2008
• Section 15: (Optional) Death During Employment. An optional provision stating that
if the Employee dies during the Employment Period, the Employer will pay his or her Salary to
the Employee’s relatives until the end of the month in which the death occurred. The Employer
also promises to pay a certain additional amount, which the Parties can agree on and enter in the
space provided. If you remove this section, correct the section numbers and the references in the
document.
• Section 16: Further Assurances. The Parties’ agreement to cooperate in doing anything else
that needs to be done to complete the Agreement. This clause is included so that not every specific
step that the Parties will take during the Employee’s employment needs to be spelled out: the Parties
simply agree to work together to do what needs to get done.
• Section 17: (Optional) Arbitration. A commonly used optional provision that requires the
Parties to resolve any disputes in arbitration (rather than in the courts). Arbitration can be quicker and
cheaper than litigation for both Parties. However, there may be local restrictions (or limitations in your
industry) about using these clauses, so it’s a good idea to review laws governing arbitration in your
area and in your field. If you remove this section, correct the section numbers and the references in
the document.
• Section 18: Notice. Lists the addresses to which all official or legal correspondence should be
delivered. Write in a mailing address for both the Employer and the Employee.
• Section 19: Successors and Assigns. In the life of a company, there may be mergers,
acquisitions, or sales of business divisions. On such occasions, the company may assign its
agreement to a surviving entity or affiliate without obtaining the Employee’s consent. Simply put,
if the Employer is purchased, the new company will not need to renegotiate this Agreement: it will
continue to be effective as is.
• Section 20: No Implied Waiver. Explains that even if one Party allows the other Party to ignore
or break an obligation under the Agreement, it does not mean that Party waives any future rights
to require the other Party to fulfill those (or any other) obligations. For example, say the Agreement
requires the Employee to work 45 hours a week, but the Employer has only required the Employee
to work 40 hours a week. Later on, the Employer could tell the Employee to work 45 hours a week,
as required in the Agreement. If the Employee claims that this right was “waived” because the
Employer didn’t enforce it, the Employer can point to this section: its failure to enforce the provision at
one point doesn’t mean it can’t enforce it later.
• Section 21: Governing Law. Employees may work in one state and their employers in another.
A governing law provision allows the Employer to choose the state laws that will be used to interpret
the Agreement. Note that this is not a venue provision. The included language will not impact where a
potential claim can be brought. Write the applicable state in the blank provided.
• Section 22: Counterparts/Electronic Signatures. The title of this provision sounds
complicated, but it is simple to explain: it says that even if the Parties sign the Agreement in different
locations, or use electronic devices to transmit signatures (e.g., fax machines or computers), all
of the separate pieces will be considered part of the same Agreement. In a modern world where
signing parties are often not in the same city - much less the same room - this provision ensures that
business can be transacted efficiently, without sacrificing the validity of the agreement as a whole.
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 6
© LEGALZOOM.COM, INC. 2008
• Section 23: Severability. Protects the terms of the Agreement as a whole, even if one part is
later invalidated. For example, if a state law is passed prohibiting arbitration clauses, it will not undo
the entire Agreement. Instead, only the section dealing with arbitration would be invalidated, leaving
the remainder of the Agreement enforceable.
The second part of this section is optional, and discusses the non-competition and non-solicitation
clauses specifically. Because these clauses are delicate, and run the risk of being termed too broad
or overreaching, this subsection allows a court to limit the reach of these clauses rather than delete
them altogether. If you do not include the non-competition clause in Section 10, delete any references
to Section 10 or non-competition. If you do not include this subsection, correct the formatting in the
document.
• Section 24: Entire Agreement. The Parties’ agreement that the document they’re signing is “the
agreement” about the issues involved. Unfortunately, the inclusion of this provision will not prevent a
Party from arguing that other enforceable promises exist, but it will provide you some protection from
these claims.
• Section 25: Headings. Notes that the headings at the beginning of each section are meant to
organize the document. Any interpretation of the Agreement should not be based on the headings.
DISCLAIMER
LegalZoom is not a law firm. The information contained in the packet is general legal information and should not be construed as legal
advice to be applied to any specific factual situation. The use of the materials in this packet does not create or constitute an attorney-client
relationship between the user of this form and LegalZoom, its employees or any other person associated with LegalZoom. Because the law
differs in each legal jurisdiction and may be interpreted or applied differently depending on your location or situation, you should not rely
upon the materials provided in this packet without first consulting an attorney with respect to your specific situation.
The materials in this packet are provided "As-Is," without warranty or condition of any kind whatsoever. LegalZoom does not warrant the
materials' quality, accuracy, timeliness, completeness, merchantability or fitness for use or purpose. To the maximum extent provided by
law, LegalZoom, it agents and officers shall not be liable for any damages whatsoever (including compensatory, special, direct, incidental,
indirect, consequential, punitive or any other damages) arising out of the use or the inability to use the materials provided in this packet.
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 7
© LEGALZOOM.COM, INC. 2008
Form Sample
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 8
© LEGALZOOM.COM, INC. 2008