2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
LOAN AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
[ORANGE COUNTY HOUSING AUTHORITY,
acting solely as the Housing Successor Agency to the Orange County Development
Agency,]
OR
[COUNTY OF ORANGE, a political subdivision of the State of California,]
AND
BORROWER
ATTACHMENT N 1 – Sample Loan Agreement
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
LOAN AGREEMENT
THIS LOAN AGREEMENT ("the Agreement") is entered into as of this _____
day of _________________, 2024, by and between the [ORANGE COUNTY HOUSING
AUTHORITY, a public corporation created pursuant to California Health and Safety
Code section 34200 et. seq., acting solely as the Housing Successor Agency to the
Orange County Development Agency] [COUNTY OF ORANGE, a political subdivision
of the State of California] (“County”), and [BORROWER] ("Borrower"), with reference
to the following:
RECITALS
1. Borrower intends to construct a housing project on that certain real
property located within the [LOCATION], County of Orange, State of California, and
more particularly described in Exhibit "A" attached hereto and incorporated herein (the
"Property"). The Borrower further intends to [construct] operate a [number of units]
(__) residential development consisting of [PROEJCT INFORMATION]] which shall be
constructed by Borrower on the Property (collectively, the “Project”).
2. The Borrower has submitted to County an application for funding of a
project, described herein, under its 2023 Supportive Housing Notice of Funding
Availability, as amended (“2023 NOFA”).
3. The County desires to provide permanent financial assistance in the form
of a loan to Borrower subject to the Borrower’s agreement, amongst other things, to
encumber the Property with certain rental restrictions, all as more particularly set forth in
this Agreement and the Regulatory Agreement.
4. The Orange County Board of Supervisors [acting as the Board of
Commissioners for the Orange County Housing Authority] approved a loan to the
Borrower from County funds for financing on [DATE].
5. Borrower is financing the construction of the improvements and related
costs and expenses through, among others, during the Qualified Project Period, as defined
below, the following sources (collectively, the “Permitted Financing”)::
[FINANCING SOURCES TO BE OUTLINED FORTHWITH]
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 1
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
The following terms used in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings
assigned to them in this Article I unless the context in which they are used clearly
requires otherwise:
1.1. "Adjusted Income" shall mean the adjusted income of all persons who
intend to reside in one residential unit, calculated in the manner which complies
with determinations of income for low income families under the Department of
Housing and Urban Development’s Section 8 Program of the United States
Housing Act of 1937, as amended.
1.2. "Agreement" shall mean this Loan Agreement.
1.3. “Area" shall mean Orange County.
1.4. “Assignment of Leases” shall mean that certain Assignment of Lessor’s
Interest in Leases, Rents and Profits executed by Borrower of even date herewith.
1.5. “Borrower” shall mean [XXXX]
1.6. “Close of Escrow" shall mean the date on which through the Escrow
Holder and the Deed of Trust together with the other Loan Documents set up for
recording are in fact recorded.
1.7. "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from
time to time hereafter, or any successor statute thereto.
1.8. “Conversion Date” the date that a construction loan converts from the
construction phase, as defined in the senior construction loan document, to the
permanent phase and the County Loan is funded.
1.9. "County" shall mean the [County of Orange, a political subdivision of the
state of California] or [Orange County Housing Authority, a public corporation
created pursuant to California Health and Safety Code section 34200 et. seq.,
acting solely as the Housing Successor Agency to the Orange County
Development Agency].
1.10. "Deed of Trust" shall mean that certain Deed of Trust, Assignment of
Rents and Security Agreement executed by the Borrower in favor of the County
of even date herewith.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 2
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
1.11. "Director" shall mean the [Orange County Housing Authority Executive
Director] OR [OC Community Resources Director] or her or his designee.
1.12. "Due Date" shall mean the date which is fifty-five (55) years following the
Conversion Date, on which all principal and interest due on the Loan shall be
fully paid.
1.13. "Escrow Holder" shall mean the escrowholder approved by the County for
the escrow established to facilitate the Close of Escrow.
1.14. "Financing Plan" shall mean the financing plan described in Section 4.1
below.
1.15. “Financing Statement" shall mean the UCC-1 form to be prepared and
executed by Borrower, in a form satisfactory to the County, and delivered to the
County, the filing of which shall give the County a perfected security interest in
Borrower's tangible personal property and fixtures located on or about the Project.
1.16. “Hazardous Materials” or “hazardous materials” shall mean:
(a) any oil, flammable substance, explosive, radioactive material,
hazardous waste or substance, toxic waste or substance or any other waste,
material, or pollutant that
(i) poses a hazard to the Project or to persons on the Project or
(ii) causes the Project to be in violation of any Hazardous
Substance Law;
(b) asbestos in any form;
(c) urea formaldehyde foam insulation;
(d) transformers or other equipment that contain dielectric fluid
containing levels of polychlorinated biphenyls;
(e) radon gas;
(f) any chemical, material, or substance defined as or included in the
definition of “hazardous substance,” “hazardous substances,” “hazardous wastes,”
“hazardous materials,” “extremely hazardous waste,” “restricted hazardous
waste,” or “toxic substances” or words of similar import under any applicable
local, state, or federal law or under the regulations adopted or publications
promulgated pursuant to those laws, including, but not limited to, any Hazardous
Substance Law, Code of Civil Procedure § 564, as amended from time to time,
Code of Civil Procedure § 726.5, as amended from time to time, Code of Civil
Procedure §736, as amended from time to time, and Civil Code § 2929.5, as
amended from time to time;
(g) any other chemical, material, or substance, exposure to which is
prohibited, limited, or regulated by any governmental authority or which may
pose a hazard to the health and safety of the occupants of the Project or the
owners or occupants of property adjacent to or surrounding the Project, or any
other person coming on the Project or any adjacent property; and
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 3
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
(h) any other chemical, material, or substance that may pose a hazard
to the environment flammable materials, explosives, radioactive materials,
hazardous wastes, toxic substances and similar substances and materials,
including all substances and materials defined as hazardous or toxic wastes,
substances or materials under any applicable law, including, without limitation the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et. seq., as
amended.
1.17. “Hazardous Substance Law” means any federal, state, or local law,
ordinance, regulation, or policy relating to the environment, health, and safety,
any Hazardous Substance (including, without limitation, the use, handling,
transportation, production, disposal, discharge, or storage of the substance),
industrial hygiene, soil, groundwater, and indoor and ambient air conditions or the
environmental conditions on the Project, including, without limitation, the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 [42 USCS §§ 9601 et seq.], as amended from time to time; the Hazardous
Substances Transportation Act [49 USCS §§ 1801 et seq.], as amended from time
to time; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act [42 USCS §§ 6901 et seq.],
as amended from time to time; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act [33 USCS
§§ 1251 et seq.], as amended from time to time; the Hazardous Substance
Account Act [Health and Safety Code §§ 25300 et seq.], as amended from time to
time; the Hazardous Waste Control Law [Health and Safety Code §§ 25100 et
seq.], as amended from time to time; the Medical Waste Management Act [Health
and Safety Code §§ 25015 et seq.], as amended from time to time; and the Porter-
Cologne Water Quality Control Act [Water Code §§ 13000 et seq.], as amended
from time to time.
1.18. "Loan" shall mean the Loan in the amount of --------------- ($---------------)
by the County to the Borrower, which Loan is the subject of this Agreement.
1.19. "Loan Documents" shall mean the following documents evidencing the
Loan: (a) the Note; (b) the Deed of Trust; (c) the Financing Statement; (d) the
Regulatory Agreement; (e) Request for Notice of Default; (f) the Assignment of
Leases; and (g) this Loan Agreement.
1.20. "Management Plan" shall mean that management plan submitted to and
approved by the County pursuant to Section 4.1 below.
1.21. “Marketing Plan” shall mean that certain Marketing Plan submitted to and
approved by the County pursuant to Section 7.8 hereof.
1.22. "Median Income for the Area" shall mean the median income for the Area
as most recently determined by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”) and published by the State of California. In the
event that such income determinations are no longer published, or are not updated
for a period of at least eighteen (18) months, the County shall provide the
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 4
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
Borrower with other income determinations which are reasonably similar with
respect to methods of calculation to those previously published by HUD and the
State.
1.23. "Mortgage Loan" shall mean any of the following loans secured by a
mortgage or deed of trust on the Project:
(a) The Loan evidenced by the Note and the balance of the Loan Documents.
(b) Any other loan secured by a mortgage or deed of trust on the Project, either
senior or junior to the Loan.
1.24. "Mortgage Loan Documents" shall mean all documents executed by the
Borrower endorsing or securing a Mortgage Loan.
1.25. “Mortgagee" shall mean the mortgagee or beneficiary under a mortgage or
a deed of trust executed in connection with a Mortgage Loan.
1.26. "Note" shall mean the promissory note in the principal amount of Loan
evidencing the monies borrowed by Borrower from the County.
1.27. "Operating Reserves" shall mean reserves maintained during the Qualified
Project period and funded out of Residual Receipts, loan advances, equity, or
other sources and set aside for taxes and assessments, insurance premiums,
operating expenses, and debt service. Operating Reserves shall not exceed the
amount required to pay three (3) months of operating expenses and three (3)
months of mandatory debt service.
1.28. "Parties" shall mean the County and the Borrower.
1.29. Partnership" shall mean [NAME OF PARTNERSHIP].
1.30. “Permanent Lender” shall mean the permanent lender designated by
Borrower and approved in advance by the County as the Permanent Lender for
the Project.
1.31. “Permitted Financing” shall have the meaning given in Recital 5.
1.32. “Plans and Specification” shall mean the final set of architectural,
structural, mechanical, electrical, grading, sewer, water, street and utility plans
and specifications for the Project, including all supplemental, amendments and
modifications.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 5
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
1.33. "Project" means collectively the Property and the structures and related
buildings and other improvements now or hereafter located on the Property from
time to time together with all fixtures and other property owned by the Borrower
and located on, or used in connection with, such buildings, structures and other
improvements.
1.34. "Property" means the real property legally described on Exhibit "A",
which is attached hereto and by this reference incorporated herein, and all rights
and appurtenances thereunto appertaining.
1.35. "Qualified Project Period" shall mean the period beginning upon the
Conversion Date and ending on the date which is fifty-five (55) years after the
beginning of the Qualified Project Period.
1.36. “Qualified Tenant” or “Qualified Tenants” shall collectively mean the
individuals occupying the Restricted Units with the Adjusted Incomes more
particularly described in Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein.
The income of individuals shall be determined in a manner consistent with deter-
minations of lower income households under Section 8 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937, as amended (or, if such program is terminated, in a manner
consistent with such determinations under such program as is in effect
immediately before such termination). In no event, however, will the occupant of
a Restricted Unit be considered to be a Qualified Tenant if the occupant is a
student, and is not entitled to file a federal income tax return.
1.37. "Regulations" shall mean the Income Tax Regulations promulgated by the
United States Department of the Treasury pursuant to the Code from time to time.
1.38. "Regulatory Agreement" shall mean that certain Regulatory Agreement
and Declaration of Restrictive Covenants between the County and the Borrower
of even date herewith.
1.39. “Replacement Reserves” shall mean reserves maintained during the
Qualified Project period and funded out of Residual Receipts, loan advances,
equity, or other sources and set aside for replacement of roofing, furniture,
fixtures, equipment and other capital expenditures. The annual amount set aside
for Replacement Reserves shall not be more than four hundred dollars ($400) per
unit. Exceptions may be considered where required for continued feasibility of
projects with short-term rent subsidy commitments, or when required by other
funding agencies when approved in writing by the County.
1.40. "Request for Notice of Default" shall mean a request for notice of default
to be recorded against the Property in a form approved by the County.
1.41. “Residual Receipts” means, during the Qualified Project Period, the
Annual Project Revenue less (A) Annual Operating Expenses (as defined in the
Note), (B) obligated debt service on permanent loan(s) for the Project senior to
the County’s Loan approved in writing by the County at the closing of the Loan,
(C) payment obligations (e.g. partnership management fees, and deferred
developer fees) approved in writing by the County at the closing of the Loan, and
(D) scheduled deposits to reserves approved in writing by the County.
1.42. “Restricted Unit” or “Restricted Units” means the dwelling units in the
Project identified on Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein required
to be rented to, or held available for occupancy by, Qualified Tenants pursuant to
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 6
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
the terms, covenants and conditions of the Regulatory Agreement, this
Agreement, including, but not limited to, the rental restrictions and other matters
set forth in said Exhibit "B" and the other Loan Documents.
1.43. “Tax Credit Investor” shall mean the tax credit investor designated by
Borrower and approved in advance by the County as the Tax Credit Investor for
the Project.
1.44. “Term” shall mean the period of time commencing on the date of this
Agreement and ending with the last date of the Qualified Project Period, for a
total possible term of up to fifty-eight (58) years..
ARTICLE II
LOAN
2.1 Amount. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the County hereby
agrees to lend and the Borrower hereby agrees to borrow, the Loan, evidenced by the
Note, the proceeds of which shall be used to acquire the Property and upon fulfillment of
certain conditions, as set forth herein, to permanently finance the Project and for the other
purposes set forth herein.
2.2 Repayment of Loan. Borrower shall repay the Loan, with interest, in
accordance with the provisions of the Note and this Agreement. Except as otherwise
provided, all payments shall be applied first to interest and then to principal.
2.3 Prepayment. Borrower may pay the principal and any interest due the
County under the Note prior to or in advance of the time for payment thereof as provided
in the Note, without penalty; provided, however, that Borrower acknowledges that in the
event the Conversion Date occurs the provisions of this Agreement and the Regulatory
Agreement will be applicable to the Project throughout the Qualified Project Period
even though Borrower may have prepaid the Note.
2.4 Assumption. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.7 hereof, the Note
shall not be assumable by successors and assigns of Borrower, either voluntarily or by
operation of law, without the prior written discretionary consent of the County and any
such assignment or assumption without said prior consent of the County shall be void.
2.5 Loan Disbursement. Upon satisfaction of the conditions to disbursement
set forth in Section 4.1 below and pursuant to the disbursement procedures set forth in
Section 4.2 below, the County, through the approved Escrowholder, will cause the
disbursement of the Loan as provided for in Section 4.2.
2.6 Security for Loan. The Loan shall be secured by the Deed of Trust,
Regulatory Agreement, the Financing Statement, Assignment of Leases and the Request
for Notice of Default.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 7
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
2.7 Approval of Additional Financing. Except as to the Permitted Financing
and as otherwise described herein, the Borrower shall not place or permit (either
voluntarily or involuntarily) to be placed any encumbrances, including, but not limited to
any additional liens or financing of any kind on the Project without the prior written
discretionary consent of the County.
2.8 Subordination of Deed of Trust.
The County agrees that the Deed of Trust may be subordinate to the lien of
a permanent loan secured by a Senior Construction/Permanent Deed of Trust (and any
refinancing of said permanent loan secured by the Senior Construction/Permanent Deed
of Trust) securing financing in an amount not to exceed $[XXX,XXX] so long as (i) the
documentation for said loan is approved by the County and (ii) said loan is otherwise
provided for and approved by the County in the Financing Plan. Any other financing,
refinancing or encumbrance of the Project is prohibited without the County’s prior
written consent which consent the County may arbitrarily withhold in the exercise of its
discretion
In order to affect the subordinations described above and elsewhere in this
Agreement, the County and Borrower agree to execute and acknowledge for recordation
a subordination agreement (in a form acceptable to the County) in favor of the senior
lender, as requested by such senior lender.
ARTICLE III
RENTAL RESTRICTIONS DURING THE
QUALIFIED PROJECT PERIOD
3.1 Use and Rent Restrictions.
(a) During the Qualified Project Period, the Project shall be “Affordable” as
defined in 24 CFR Part 92.252 and in compliance with County policies associated with
the 2023 NOFA for a period of not less than fifty-five (55) years.
(b) In accordance with the provisions of the Regulatory Agreement, this Loan
Agreement and Exhibit “B” attached hereto and incorporated herein, the Borrower has
agreed to rent the Restricted Units of the Project to Qualified Tenants for the Qualified
Project Period at the rents described in said Exhibit “B.”
(c) Borrower agrees to provide to Qualified Tenants notice of all rent
increases pursuant to applicable California law.
(d) Borrower agrees to limit rent increases to (i) the Department of Housing
and Urban Development’s (HUD) annually published Rent Adjustment factor for the
Section 8 program, or (ii) no more than the rent established as affordable based on the
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 8
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
Median Income for the Area and the affordability restrictions set forth in Exhibit “B”,
which is adjusted annually by HUD and published by the State of California.
3.2 Income Determination. For the purposes of this section, the income of
individuals and families and the area median gross income shall be determined in a
manner consistent with determinations of lower income families and the Median Income
for the Area under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended (or, if
such program is terminated, in a manner consistent with such determinations under such
program as is in effect immediately before such termination). Determinations under the
preceding sentence shall include adjustments for household size.
3.3 Certifications. With respect to those Restricted Units subject to the rental
restrictions described above, during the Qualified Project Period the Borrower will
comply with the Qualified Tenant certifications and recertifications in the same manner
as prescribed under the Regulatory Agreement. Said certifications and recertifications
shall include, but not be limited to, client name, address, and verifiable income level (as
documented by income tax returns, employee payroll records, retirement statements, etc.
or other third party documentation approved by the County for determining eligibility).
Such information shall be made available to County monitors, or their designees, for
review upon request.
3.4 Records.
(a) The Borrower will maintain complete and accurate records as required by
Federal Regulations specified in 24 CFR 92.508, which shall contain a description of
each activity undertaken, records pertaining to the Restricted Units, records documenting
compliance with fair housing and equal opportunity components, financial records as
required by 24 CFR 92.508 (a)(5), other records to document compliance with Subpart K
of 24 CFR 92, and records documenting the continued affordability and income
restrictions outlined in Exhibit “B”.
(b) The Borrower will permit any duly authorized representatives of the
County to inspect and copy the books and records of the Borrower pertaining to the
Project, including those books and records pertaining to the occupancy of the Restricted
Units provided that the County will make a reasonable effort to provide notice of at least
forty-eight (48) hours to inspect, examine, or make copies of such information.
(c) Borrower will retain such records for a period of five (5) years after the
termination of all activities funded under this Agreement.
3.5 Leases. Each lease pertaining to a Restricted Unit shall contain provisions
to the effect that the Borrower has relied on the income certification and supporting
information supplied by the Qualified Tenant in determining qualification for occupancy
of the Restricted Unit, and that any material misstatement in such certification (whether
or not intentional) will be cause for immediate termination of such lease. County reserve
the right to require additional non-financial terms or clauses that are reasonably related to
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 9
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
such qualifications (including, but not limited to additional disclosure clauses) that the
County may from time to time deem appropriate or necessary to be included in said
leases.
ARTICLE IV
DISBURSEMENT OF LOAN
4.1 Conditions Precedent to Disbursement of Loan Proceeds. The County
shall cause Loan proceeds to be disbursed through escrow to the Borrower as set forth in
this Article IV. No disbursement shall be made until all of the following conditions
precedent are satisfied:
(a) Execution and Delivery of Documents. Borrower shall have executed and
delivered to the County (i) this Agreement, the Note, the Deed of Trust, the Financing
Statement, the Regulatory Agreement, and the Assignment of Leases, (ii) all resolutions
and certificates necessary or appropriate in the opinion of the County to evidence the
Borrower's authority to enter into the Loan and be bound by the Loan Documents, and
(iii) all other documents and instruments required by the County to be executed and
delivered, all in form and substance satisfactory to the County.
(b) Insurance. Borrower shall have furnished the County with certificates of
insurance for all policies required under this Agreement.
(c) Phase One Environmental Assessment Report. Borrower shall have
provided the County with a Phase One Environmental Assessment Report on the Property
prepared by a licensed and registered environmental engineer or other qualified party
satisfactory to County, along with any other information the County may require, in each
case stating that no hazardous substances are present in, on, under or around the Property
and that no condition or circumstances warranting further investigation now exists.
(d) Notice of Completion; Compliance with Applicable Requirements; Senior
Permanent Loan Conversion Conditions Precedent The Borrower shall have submitted to
the County and the County shall have approved the recorded Notice of Completion, the
final certificate of occupancy and evidence that the Property and its intended use are in
compliance with all applicable building, zoning and other requirements of applicable
public authorities.
(e) Financing Plan. The Borrower shall have submitted and the County shall
have approved the Borrower's plan for the permanent financing of the Project ("Financ-
ing Plan").
(f) Management Plan. The Borrower shall have submitted and the County
shall have approved a Management Plan ("Management Plan"). The Management Plan
shall include a management contract with a manager approved in writing by the County
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 10
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
for management of the Project and a plan for long-term marketing, operation,
maintenance, repair and security of the Project, method of selection of tenants, and for
rental policies in compliance with any applicable requirements, policies and procedures
and with the Regulatory Agreement, along with any other policies or procedures required
by the County. The Management Plan shall also include an initial budget for the Project.
(g) Mechanic’s Liens. The Borrower shall have submitted to County for
County approval evidence that all construction costs have been paid in full and that the
period for filing of mechanic’s liens has expired without the filing of any lien.
(h) As-Built Survey. Borrower shall have delivered and the County shall have
approved a final, as-built ALTA survey for the Project showing the location of all
improvements in and to the Project as well as (i) all “setbacks” and other restrictions
applicable to the Project pursuant to requirements of applicable public authorities (ii) all
easements, licenses and other rights of way, (iii) shows no encroachments onto the
Project or from the Project onto adjoining property and (iv) certifies the legal description
of the Project as insured in the title policy.
(i) Title Policy. Borrower shall, at its sole expense, have delivered to County
an ALTA loan policy-2006, with ALTA endorsement Form 1 coverage, amended 6/1/87,
without further revision or amendment, issued by an insurer satisfactory to County,
together with an unconditional CLTA 100 endorsement, a CLTA 103.7 endorsement, a
CLTA 116.1 endorsement, an ALTA Form 8.1 endorsement and all other endorsements
and binders required by County, naming County as the insured, in a policy amount of not
less than the Loan, showing Borrower as the owner of the Project and insuring the Deed
of Trust to be a valid [LIEN PRIORITY] lien on the Project, subject only to those
exceptions approved by the County in Section 2.8 above.
(j) Recordation. The Regulatory Agreement, Deed of Trust, Assignment of
Leases and Financing Statement shall have been recorded, in that order, in the Official
Records of Orange County.
(k) Senior Acquisition Deed of Trust. The Mortgage Loan Documents for the
first trust deed permanent Mortgage Loan shall have been recorded in such order as
directed by the said senior first trust deed lender.
(l) No Default. There shall exist no condition, event or act which would
constitute an Event of Default (as hereinafter defined) hereunder or which, upon the
giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
(m) Representations and Warranties. All representations and warranties of
Borrower herein contained shall be true and correct.
(n) Availability of Funds. The Borrower has submitted to the County and the
County has approved in the exercise of its discretion evidence that the funds identified as
committed to the acquisition of the Property in the approved Financing Plan to be
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 11
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
available on the Conversion Date are in fact unconditionally and readily available to
Borrower for the Property as of the Close of Escrow.
(o) Priority of Regulatory Agreement. The Regulatory Agreement has been
executed and recorded as a lien senior to the Deed of Trust.
4.2 Procedure for Disbursement of Loan Proceeds. When all the conditions to
disbursement have been satisfied, the County shall deposit the Loan with the
Escrowholder for disbursement upon the Close of Escrow with the Permanent Lender in
accordance with the terms of separate written escrow instructions between the County
and Borrower. Said agreement shall be deposited into escrow.
4.3 Waiver; Termination. No waiver of any of the conditions to the Close of
Escrow and disbursement of the Loan shall be permitted unless agreed to in writing by
the Director. If any of the conditions to disbursement of the Loan are not satisfied within
[X] (X) months following the date of this Agreement, County may terminate this Agree-
ment by the Director giving written notice to Borrower. Upon such termination, the
parties shall have no further rights or obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
LEASES
5.1 Standard Form Leases. On or before the commencement of the Qualified
Project Period, Borrower shall submit to County for its written approval a standard form
of residential lease to be used for leasing of the Project (the “Standard Lease”). The
Standard Lease shall be in compliance with all applicable laws and Borrower shall be
obligated to revise said Standard Lease from time to time to comply with any changes in
said applicable laws.
5.2 Leasing Program. Borrower shall market and lease the Project consistent
with the Marketing Plan described in Section 7.8 hereof.
5.3 Pro-Forma Schedules. Attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit
“B” is the rental rate schedule for the Units at the Project approved by County.
5.4 No Changes. Borrower shall not materially modify the approved Standard
Lease or materially deviate from the approved rental rate schedule for the Units without
the County’s prior written consent in each instance, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.
5.5 Landlord’s Obligations. Borrower shall timely and in good faith, perform
all obligations required to be performed by it as landlord under any lease affecting any
part of the Project or any space within the Project. If any tenant at any time claims any
breach of landlord’s obligations and the amount of such claim (in excess of available
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 12
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
insurance coverage) is $10,000 or more, Borrower shall promptly notify County of such
claim.
ARTICLE VI
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF BORROWER
6.1 Representations and Warranties. Borrower hereby makes the following
representations and warranties to the County, each of which shall also be deemed a
covenant and all of the following, Borrower agrees, shall continue to be true and accurate
in all material respects so long as the Loan or any portion thereof remains outstanding:
(a) Organization. Borrower is duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the laws of the State of California and has the power and authority to own
its property and carry on its business as now being conducted. The copies of the
documents evidencing the organization of Borrower delivered to the County are true and
correct copies of the originals, as amended to the date of this Agreement, and Borrower
will promptly provide the County with copies of any modifications thereto.
(b) Authority of Borrower. Borrower has full power and authority to execute
and deliver this Agreement and to make and accept the borrowings contemplated
hereunder, to execute and deliver the Loan Documents and all other documents or
instruments executed and delivered, or to be executed and delivered, pursuant to this
Agreement, and to perform and observe the terms and provisions of all of the above.
(c) Authority of Persons Executing Documents. This Agreement and the
Loan Documents and all other documents or instruments executed and delivered, or to be
executed and delivered, pursuant to this Agreement have been executed and delivered by
persons who are duly authorized to execute and deliver the same for and on behalf of
Borrower, and all actions required under Borrower's organizational documents and
applicable governing law for the authorization, execution, delivery and performance of
this Agreement and the Loan Documents and all other documents or instruments exe-
cuted and delivered, or to be executed and delivered, pursuant to this Agreement, have
been duly taken.
(d) Valid Binding Agreements. This Agreement and the Loan Documents and
all other documents or instruments which have been executed and delivered pursuant to
or in connection with this Agreement constitute or, if not yet executed or delivered, will
when so executed and delivered constitute, legal, valid and binding obligations of
Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
(e) No Breach of Law or Agreement. Neither the execution nor delivery of
this Agreement and the Loan Documents or of any other documents or instruments
executed and delivered, or to be executed or delivered, pursuant to this Agreement, nor
the performance of any provision, condition, covenant or other term hereof or thereof,
will conflict with or result in a breach of any statute, rule or regulation, or any judgment,
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 13
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
decree or order of any court, board, commission or agency whatsoever binding on
Borrower and in effect at the time of execution of this Agreement, or any provision of the
organizational documents of Borrower or, if applicable, of its constituent partners, or will
conflict with or constitute a breach of or a default under any agreement to which
Borrower, or, if applicable, its constituent partners, is a party, or will result in the creation
or imposition of any lien upon any assets or property of Borrower, other than liens estab-
lished pursuant hereto.
(f) Pending Proceedings. Borrower is not in default under any law or
regulation or under any order of any court, board, commission or agency whatsoever, and
there are no claims, actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of
Borrower, threatened against Borrower or the Property or Project, at law or in equity,
before or by any court, board, commission or agency whatsoever which might, if
determined adversely to Borrower, materially affect Borrower's ability to repay the Loan
or impair the security to be given to the County pursuant hereto.
(g) Compliance with Laws; Consents and Approvals. The Project shall
comply at all times with all applicable laws (including but not limited to all Hazardous
Substances Laws), ordinances, rules and regulations of federal, state, and local govern-
ments and agencies, and with all applicable directions, rules and regulations of the fire
marshal, health officer, building inspector, and other officers of any such government or
agency. All consents, permissions and licenses required by any federal, state, or local
government or agency to which the Borrower, the Property or the Project is subject,
which may be necessary in relation to this Agreement or the ownership or operation of
the Project, have been or will be obtained.
(h) Financial Statements. The financial statements of the Borrower and its
constituent partners, if any, and other financial data and information furnished by the
Borrower for review by the County relating to the financial condition of Borrower or any
of Borrower’s constituent partners or the Project, fairly present the information contained
therein. As of the date of Loan disbursement, there will not have been any adverse
material change in the financial condition of the Borrower or its constituent partners from
that shown by such financial statements and other data and information.
(i) Adequacy of Loan. The amount of the Loan, together with any funds to
be provided by the Borrower or to the Borrower from any other sources, is adequate to
pay all costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of the Property and to enable the
Borrower to satisfy the covenants contained in this Agreement.
(j) Payment of Taxes. All federal, state, county, and municipal taxes required
to be paid by the Borrower or on account of the Property have been paid in full as of the
date of this Agreement or will be paid in full by the Close of Escrow. Borrower knows of
no basis for any additional assessment of taxes as of this date.
(k) Regulatory Agreement. The Project is, and will at all times remain, in
compliance with all requirements of this Agreement and the Regulatory Agreement. The
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 14
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
units in the Project shall be rented or available for rental on a basis which satisfies the
requirements of the Regulatory Agreement. All leases will comply with all applicable
laws and the Regulatory Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
CONTINUING OBLIGATIONS OF BORROWER
7.1 Applicability. For the longer of the entire Term, or so long as the Note
remains outstanding, the Borrower shall comply with the provisions of this Article VII.
7.2 Compliance with Loan Documents. Borrower shall promptly comply with
all the terms, covenants and provisions of the Loan Documents.
7.3 Taxes and Assessments. So long as Borrower owns the Property and the
Project, Borrower shall pay all real and personal property taxes, assessments and charges,
and all franchise, income, unemployment, old age benefit, withholding, sales, and other
taxes assessed against it, or payable by it, at such times and in such manner as to prevent
any delinquency or penalty from accruing, or any lien or charge from attaching to the
Project; provided, however, that Borrower shall have the right to contest in good faith any
such taxes, assessments, or charges. In the event Borrower exercises its right to contest
any tax, assessment, or charge against it, Borrower, on final determination of the
proceeding or contest, shall immediately pay or discharge any decision or judgment
rendered against it, together with all costs, charges, and interest.
7.4 Indemnity.
(a) To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower agrees to indemnify,
hold harmless and defend the County and its elected officials, officers, governing
members, employees, attorneys and agents (collectively, the "Indemnified Parties"), from
and against any and all losses, damages, claims, actions, liabilities, reasonable costs and
expenses of any and every conceivable nature, kind or character (including, without
limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees, litigation and court costs, amounts paid in
settlement and amounts paid to discharge judgments) to which the Indemnified Parties, or
any of them, may become subject to under any statutory law (including federal or state
securities laws) or at common law or otherwise, arising out of or based upon or in any
way relating to:
1. the Loan Documents or the execution or amendment thereof or in
connection with the transactions contemplated thereby;
2. Borrower’s ownership or operation of the Project or any act or
omission of the Borrower or any of its agents, contractors, servants, employees or
licensees in connection with the Loan or the Project, the operation of the Project, or the
condition, environmental or otherwise, occupancy, use, possession, conduct or
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 15
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
management of work done in or about, or from the planning, design, acquisition,
installation, operation or rehabilitation of, the Project or any part thereof;
3. any lien or charge upon payments by the Borrower to the
County, or any taxes (including, without limitation, all ad valorem taxes and sales taxes),
assessments, impositions and other charges imposed on the County in respect
of any portion of the Project;
4. any violation of any environmental law, rule or regulation with
respect to, or the release of any toxic substance from, the Project or any part thereof;
5. any untrue statement or misleading statement or alleged untrue
statement or alleged misleading statement of a material fact by the Borrower contained in
any Loan Document or any of the documents or instruments relating to said Loan
Documents that the County relied upon in making the Loan except to the extent such
damages are caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified
Party. In the event that any action or proceeding is brought against any Indemnified Party
with respect to which indemnity may be sought hereunder, the Borrower, upon written
notice from the Indemnified Party, shall assume the investigation and defense thereof,
including the employment and payment for counsel selected by the Indemnified Party,
and shall assume the payment of all reasonable expenses related thereto, with full power
to litigate, compromise or settle the same; provided that the Indemnified Party shall have
the right to review and approve or disapprove any such compromise or settlement.
6. If judgment is entered against Borrower and County by a court of
competent jurisdiction because of the concurrent active negligence of County or
Indemnified Parties, Borrower and County agree that liability will be apportioned as
determined by the court. Neither Party shall request a jury apportionment.
7.5 Entry by the County. Borrower shall permit the County, through its
officers, agents, or employees, at all reasonable times to enter into or onto the Property or
the Project and inspect the Project to determine that the same is in conformity with the
Loan Documents and all the requirements hereof. Borrower acknowledges that the
County is under no obligation to supervise, inspect, or inform Borrower of the results of
its said inspection(s) and Borrower shall not rely upon the County therefor. Any
inspection by the County is entirely for its purposes in determining whether Borrower is
in default under this Agreement or the Loan Documents. Borrower shall rely entirely
upon its own supervision and inspection.
7.6 Hazardous Materials. Borrower shall indemnify, defend and hold
harmless the County, and its respective elected and appointed officials, members,
directors, officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns from and against any loss,
damage, cost, expense or liability directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to the
use, generation, storage, release, threatened release, discharge, disposal, or presence of
hazardous materials on, under, or about the Project, including without limitation: (a) all
foreseeable consequential damages; (b) the costs of any required or necessary repair,
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 16
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
cleanup or detoxification of the Project and the preparation and implementation of any
closure, remedial or other required plans; and (c) all reasonable costs and expenses
incurred by the County or County in connection with clauses (a) and (b), including but
not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees.
7.7 Transfers. During the Term, Borrower shall not sell or otherwise transfer
the Project or any portion thereof, and none of the constituent general partners of
Borrower shall sell or otherwise transfer their interests in Borrower, and none of the
constituent general partners in a partnership that is a partner in Borrower shall sell or
otherwise transfer their interest in such partnership without first obtaining the approval of
the County, which consent the County may withhold or grant in the exercise of its good
faith discretion. The County shall not approve any such transfer request if the Borrower
is in default under any of the Loan Documents or the Management Plan.
7.8 Management; Annual Marketing and Management Plans. Any
management company of the Project and the management agreement with such
management company shall be subject to the prior written approval of the County. The
management agreement shall not be amended, modified, supplemented, terminated or
canceled without the prior written consent of the County. Borrower and the County (if it
so elects) will cooperate in the marketing of the units on the Property pursuant to a
marketing plan (the “Marketing Plan”) prepared by the Borrower and approved by the
County. Said Marketing Plan and the Management Plan described in Section 4.1 hereof
shall be prepared by the Borrower and approved by the County on an annual basis;
however, the Borrower shall provide quarterly written supplements to said approved
plans (or more frequently if requested by the County).
7.9 Operation and Maintenance of Project.
(a) Operation. During the Qualified Project Period, Borrower shall at all
times operate on the Project an affordable housing rental facility in compliance with this
Agreement and the Regulatory Agreement.
(b) Maintenance. During the Qualified Project Period, Borrower agrees to
maintain all interior and exterior improvements, including landscaping (and all abutting
ground, sidewalks, roads, parking and landscape areas) on the Project in good condition,
repair and sanitary condition (and, as to landscaping, in a healthy condition) and in
accordance with any Management Plan approved by the County under the Loan
Agreement (including without limitation any landscape and signage plans), as the same
may be amended from time to time, and all other applicable laws, rules, ordinances,
orders, and regulations of all federal, state, county, municipal, and other governmental
agencies and bodies having jurisdiction and all their respective departments, bureaus, and
officials. Borrower acknowledges the great emphasis the County places on quality
maintenance to protect its investment and to provide quality low-income housing for its
constituents and to ensure that all County-subsidized affordable housing projects within
the County are not allowed to deteriorate due to deficient maintenance. In addition,
Borrower shall keep the Project free from all graffiti and any accumulation of debris or
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 17
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
waste material. Borrower shall promptly make all repairs and replacements necessary to
keep the Project in good condition and repair and shall promptly eliminate all graffiti and
replace dead and diseased plants and landscaping with comparable approved materials.
Borrower shall not commit or permit any waste or deterioration of the Project, shall not
abandon any portion of the Project, and shall not otherwise act, or fail to act, in such a
way as to unreasonably increase the risk of damage to the Project.
In the event that Borrower breaches any of the covenants contained in this Section
9.9 and such default continues for a period of five (5) days after written notice from
County (with respect to graffiti, debris, waste material, and general maintenance) or thirty
(30) days after written notice from County (with respect to landscaping and building
improvements), then County, in addition to whatever other remedies it may have under
this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or at law or in equity, shall have the right to
enter upon the Project and perform or cause to be performed all such acts and work
necessary to cure the default. Pursuant to such right of entry, the County shall be permit-
ted (but not required) to enter upon the Project and perform all acts and work necessary to
protect, maintain and preserve the improvements and landscaped areas on the Project, in
the amount of the expenditure arising from such acts and work of protection,
maintenance, and preservation by County and/or reasonable costs of such cure, including
a fifteen percent (15%) administrative charge, which amount shall be promptly paid by
Borrower to County upon demand.
(c) Removal of Personal Property. During the Qualified Project Period,
Borrower shall not cause or permit the removal from the Project of any items of
Borrower’s personal property (other than tools and equipment used in the operation of the
Project) unless (i) no Event of Default remains uncured and (ii) Borrower promptly
substitutes and installs on the Project other items of equal or greater value in the
operation of the Project, all of which shall be free of liens and shall be subject to the liens
of the Deed of Trust and the Financing Statement and executes and delivers to County all
documents required by County in connection with the attachment of such liens to such
items. Borrower shall keep detailed records of such removal and shall make such records
available to County upon written request from time to time.
7.10 Status of Borrower. Borrower shall at all times maintain its legal status
and all material licenses, rights, franchises and privileges in the jurisdiction of its
formation in good standing and comply with all laws, rules and regulations of California
and the United States and of any political subdivision thereof applicable to it or its
business.
7.11 Insurance. While any obligation of Borrower under any Loan Document
remains outstanding, Borrower shall maintain at Borrower's sole expense, the following
policies of insurance in form and substance as follows:
(a) Commercial General Liability insurance in an amount not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate;
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 18
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
(b) Commercial Auto Liability insurance covering all owned, non-owned and
hired autos with a limit of $1,000,000 per occurrence);
(c) Statutory Workers' compensation insurance and Employer’s Liability with
a minimum limit of $1,000,000 per occurrence (amounts subject to change to ensure
proper coverage);
(d) Commercial Property Insurance on an “All Risk” or “Special Causes of
Loss” form for 100% of the Replacement Cost Value and no coinsurance provision.
(including insurance against loss by flood if the Project is located in an area now or
hereafter designated as subject to the danger of flood, but excluding insurance against
loss by earthquake);
(e) Rent loss insurance for a period of at least one year;
(f) The Commercial Property policy, shall include a "lender's loss payable
endorsement" to the County assuring County that all proceeds shall be paid to County as
provided in the Deed of Trust subject to the interests of the senior lenders on the Project.
The County shall be an additional named insured on the Commercial General Liability
policy, and such insurance shall be primary and any insurance maintained by the County
shall be excess and non-contributing. All policies shall waive all rights of subrogation
against the County, its elected and appointed officials, officers, agents, and employees.
The general liability policy shall contain a severability of interests clause. Certificates of
insurance and endorsements for all of the above policies (and/or original policies, if
required by the County from time to time), showing the same to be in full force and
effect, shall be delivered to the County;
(g) All self-insured retentions (SIRs) shall be clearly stated on the Certificate
of Insurance. Any self-insured retention (SIR) in an amount in excess of Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($50,000) shall specifically be approved by the County’s Risk Manager, or
designee, upon review of Borrower’s current audited financial report. If Borrower’s SIR
is approved, Borrower, in addition to, and without limitation of, any other indemnity
provision(s) in this Contract, agrees to all of the following:
1. In addition to the duty to indemnify and hold the County harmless
against any and all liability, claim, demand or suit resulting from
Borrower, its agents, employee’s or subcontractor’s performance of
this Contract, Borrower shall defend the County at its sole cost and
expense with counsel approved by Board of Supervisors against
same; and
2. Borrower’s duty to defend, as stated above, shall be absolute and
irrespective of any duty to indemnify or hold harmless; and
3. The provisions of California Civil Code Section 2860 shall apply to
any and all actions to which the duty to defend stated above applies,
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 19
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
and the Borrower’s SIR provision shall be interpreted as though the
Borrower was an insurer and the County was the insured.
Upon notice of any actual or alleged claim or loss arising out of
subcontractor’s work hereunder, subcontractor shall immediately satisfy in full the SIR
provisions of the policy in order to trigger coverage for the Borrower and Additional
Insureds.
If the Borrower fails to maintain insurance acceptable to the County for
the full term of this Contract, the County may terminate this Contract.
7.12 Alterations and Repair. Except with the prior consent of the County,
during the Qualified Project Period, Borrower shall not remove, demolish or materially
alter any improvement constituting the Project, except to make non-structural repairs
which preserve or increase the Project’s value, and shall promptly restore, in good and
workmanlike manner, any said improvement (or other aspect of the Project) that is
damaged or destroyed from any cause.
7.13 Changes in Property Restrictions. Borrower shall not initiate, join in or
consent to any change in any applicable zoning ordinance, general plan or similar law, or
to any private restrictive covenant or any similar public or private restriction on the use of
the Project, except with the prior written consent of the County.
7.14 Books, Records and Annual Statement. Borrower shall maintain complete
books of account and other records reflecting the construction and operation of the
Project in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a
consistent basis. During the Qualified Project Period, the amount of the Residual
Receipts (as defined in the Note) shall be determined on the basis of an annual audited
financial statement (”Annual Statement”), for the preceding year, beginning with the first
year of operation of all or any part of the Project, prepared at the Borrower’s expense by
an independent certified public account firm acceptable to the County. Such Annual
Statement shall be prepared based on the guidelines, and taking into account the
information, set forth on Exhibit “C,” attached hereto and incorporated herein. During
the Qualified Project Period, the Borrower shall submit the Annual Statement and any
payment to the County not later than six (6) months after closing of the Borrower’s
previous year’s books. The first Annual Statement submitted by the Borrower for the
Loan shall include the period from the Completion of Construction to the close of that
year’s books. The County shall review and approve such statement, or request revisions,
within ninety (90) days after receipt. In the event that as the result of County review,
there is an increase in the amount of Residual Receipts, Borrower shall pay to the County
the full amount of such increase within ten (10) days of notice of such increases. The
terms of this subsection shall not be the exclusive method by which the County may
review Residual Receipts payments by the Borrower. In the event that an increase in the
amount of Residual Receipts for any annual period is discovered at any time subsequent
to the ninety (90) day period for that year’s books, no previous action or inaction by the
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 20
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
County shall prohibit the County from requesting repayment of those amounts at any
time during the term of this Agreement or thereafter. The Borrower shall pay to the
County the full amount of such increase within thirty (30) days of notice of such increase
for periods prior to the previous year.
7.15 Notices of Certain Matters. Borrower shall give notice to County, within
ten (10) days after Borrower receives actual knowledge thereof, of each of the following:
(a) Any litigation or claim against the Borrower relating to the Property or the
Project and involving an amount in excess of $25,000 and any litigation or claim that
might subject Borrower or any constituent partner of Borrower to liability in excess of
$50,000, whether covered by insurance or not;
(b) Any dispute between Borrower and any governmental or public agency
relating to the Property or the Project, the adverse determination of which might
materially affect the Project;
(c) Any trade name hereafter used by Borrower and any change in Borrower’s
principal place of business;
(d) Any Event of Default or event, which, with the giving of notice or the
passage of time, without ameliorative action, or both, would constitute an Event of
Default;
(e) Any default by Borrower or any other party under any Loan Document or
Mortgage Document, or the receipt by Borrower of any notice of default under any Loan
Document or Mortgage Document;
(f) The creation or imposition of any mechanics’ lien or other lien against the
Project;
(g) The presence of any hazardous materials on, under or about the Property
or the Project; any enforcement, clean-up, removal or other action or requirement of any
local, state or federal governmental or quasi-governmental authority with jurisdiction
relating to any such hazardous materials; and the existence of any occurrence of
conditions on any property in the vicinity of the Project that could cause any portion of
the Project to be classified as “border-zone property” under the provisions of the
California Health and Safety Code or any related regulations, or that could cause the
Project to be otherwise subject to any restrictions relating to hazardous materials; and
(h) Any material adverse change in the financial condition of Borrower or any
of its constituent general partners.
7.16 Further Assurances. Borrower shall execute and acknowledge (or cause to
be executed and acknowledged) and deliver to County all documents, and take all
actions, reasonably required by County from time to time to confirm the rights created or
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 21
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
now or hereafter intended to be created under the Loan Documents, to protect and further
the validity, priority and enforceability of the Loan Documents, to subject to the Loan
Documents any property intended by the terms of any Loan Document to be covered by
the Loan Documents, or otherwise to carry out the purpose of the Loan Documents and
the transactions contemplated thereunder.
7.17 Liens. Borrower shall not cause or suffer to become effective any lien,
restriction or other title limitation affecting any part of the Project other than the (i)
Regulatory Agreement, the Deed of Trust, the Financing Statement and the liens of the
Permitted Financing and (ii) taxes not delinquent.
7.18 Payment of Expenses. Borrower shall pay the County's costs and
expenses incurred in connection with the making, disbursement and administration of the
Loan, as well as any revisions, transfers, extensions, renewals, modifications, refinancing
or "workouts," and providing estoppels or subordinations of the Loan, and in the exercise
of any of County's rights or remedies under this Agreement. The County will receive
from Borrower a nonrefundable fee in the amount of Five Hundred Dollars ($500) and
Borrower shall reimburse County for all of the County’s reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses (including reasonable attorney’s fees) incurred in the administration and review
of such changes, to the extent such expenses exceed Five Hundred Dollars ($500). Such
costs and expenses may include title insurance, recording and escrow charges, survey
charges, hazard insurance, premiums, fees for any appraisals and any appraisal reviews,
architectural and engineering review, construction services and environmental and toxic
services and reviews, zoning and entitlement services and reviews, mortgage taxes, legal
fees and any other reasonable fees and costs for services, regardless of whether such
services are furnished by the County's employees or agents or independent contractors.
7.19 Loan Monitoring Fees. Unless prohibited by Federal, State or local laws,
the Borrower shall pay an annual loan monitoring fee during the Term. Loan monitoring
fees shall be incorporated into the operating pro forma. The loan monitoring fee shall
include a one time payment (“One Time Payment”) of Five Hundred Dollars ($500) to
be used for project set-up plus an annual fee (“Annual Fee”) of [AMOUNT] ($XXX),
which will be used to offset the reasonable costs associated with loan monitoring. The
initial One Time Payment fee and initial Annual Fee will be payable to the County at the
Close of Escrow. The Annual Fee will be due each subsequent year for the Qualified
Project Period on or within thirty (30) days of the day and month that this Agreement was
entered into as set forth on page one hereof. Loan monitoring fees will be adjusted
annually. The annual adjustment shall be in accordance with the change in the Consumer
Price Index for Los Angeles –Anaheim - Riverside (All Urban Consumers – All Items)
promulgated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor. This
adjustment shall be calculated by means of the following formula:
A = B x C
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 22
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
Where: A = Adjusted Annual Fee
B = Annual Fee (as such Annual Fee may have been previously adjusted)
C = Average monthly index for the most recent twelve-month period
D = Average monthly index for the twelve-month period preceding the date of
this Loan Agreement.
In the event that the Consumer Price Index (CPI) ceases to use 1982-84 = 100 as the basis
of calculation, or if, in County’s sole judgment, a substantial change is made in the
method used by the federal government to determine the CPI or the items used to
calculate the CPI, then the CPI shall be converted to the figure that would have been
calculated at (or as close to such figures as shall be practical) had the manner of
calculating the CPI in effect at the date of this Loan Agreement not been altered.
In the event that the CPI is not issued or published for the period for which such
minimum Annual Fees are to be adjusted and computed hereunder, or in the even that the
Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor should cease to
publish said index figures, then any similar index published by any other branch or
department of the United States Government selected by County, shall be used and if
none is so published, then another index general recognized as authoritative shall be
substituted by County.
In the event that the Borrower is required to pay a monitoring fee or One-Time Payment
pursuant to this section any amounts paid towards the monitoring fee or One Time
Payment for the HOME/OTHER COUNTY Loan to the Borrower shall be credited to
the amount due under this section, such that the maximum monitoring fee and One-Time
Payment hereunder combined with the monitoring fee and One-Time Payment for the
HOME Loan shall not exceed $1215, as adjusted in accordance with this section.
[Omitted if HOME/OTHER COUNTY funding is not an additional award.]
7.20 Subcontracts.
(a) Upon request of County, or their designated agent, Borrower shall submit
any requested Subcontract agreements to the County for review and consent. Any
requested Subcontracts shall be submitted to County within forty-eight (48) hours of such
request.
(b) Borrower shall assume responsibility for all subcontracted services to
assure compliance with this Agreement.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 23
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
(c) Borrower shall cause all of the applicable provisions of this Agreement in
its entirety to be included in and made a part of any subcontract executed in the
performance of this Agreement.
7.21 Relocation. Borrower shall, if applicable, in all matters relating to the
Project:
(a) Take all reasonable steps to minimize displacement by providing tenants a
reasonable opportunity to lease and occupy dwelling units in the Project being improved,
if applicable;
(b) Submit to County a plan outlining financial and advisory assistance in
securing temporary housing for any eligible tenant who is temporarily or permanently
relocated due to the Project; and,
(c) Comply with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property
Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 and 49 CFR 24 in providing relocation assistance for
persons displaced by the Project.
(d) Have in effect, and follow a residential anti-displacement and relocation
plan required under Section 104 (d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of
1974, as amended, in conjunction with any activity assisted with funds under the subject
program.
7.22 HOME Requirements. The Borrower shall carry out the design,
construction and operation of the Project, and operate the Program, in conformity with all
applicable laws, regulations, and rules of governmental agencies having jurisdiction,
including without limitation, the HOME Requirements and the legal requirements set
forth in Exhibit No. [X] attached to this Agreement and the statutes referenced therein.
For purposes of this paragraph, “HOME Requirements” mean the requirements of the
HOME Investment Partnership Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. § 12741, et seq.), and the
implementing regulations (24 C.F.R. § 92, et seq.), and the legal requirements
summarized or referenced in Exhibit No. D attached hereto and incorporated herein by
this reference. [Intentionally Omitted if inapplicable.]
7.23 Mental Health Services Act Requirements. The Borrower shall carry out
the design, construction and operation of the Project, and operate the Program, in
conformity with all applicable laws, regulations, and rules of governmental agencies
having jurisdiction, including without limitation, the requirements set forth in California
Welfare and Institutions Code Section 5771.1 et. seq. and, without limitation, the
requirements found in Exhibit No. D attached to this Agreement. [Intentionally Omitted
if inapplicable.]
7.24 Housing Successor Agency/County and/or Project Based Voucher
Requirements. The Borrower shall carry out the design, construction and operation of the
Project, and operate the Program, in conformity with all applicable laws, regulations, and
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 24
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
rules of governmental agencies having jurisdiction, including without limitation, the
requirements set forth in state and federal law and, without limitation, the requirements
found in Exhibit No. D attached to this Agreement. [Intentionally Omitted if
inapplicable.]
7.25 Lender Recognition. The owner shall ensure recognition of the role of the
County in providing funds through this Agreement. All activities, facilities and items
utilized pursuant to the Agreement shall be prominently labeled as to funding source.
7.26 Child Support Enforcement Requirements.
(a) In order to comply with child enforcement requirements of the County,
within 30 days of the close of escrow, Borrower agrees to furnish to the County:
1. In the case of an individual Borrower, his/her name, date of birth,
Social Security number, and residence address;
2. In the case of an Borrower doing business in a form other than as
an individual, the name, date of birth, Social Security number, and residence address of
each individual who owns 10% or more of the Project;
3. A certification that the Borrower has fully complied with all
applicable federal and state reporting requirements regarding its employees; and,
4. A certification that the Borrower has fully complied with all
lawfully served Wage and Earnings Assignment Orders and Notices of Assignment and
will continue to comply.
(b) The certification will be stated as follows:
“I certify that (company name) is in full
compliance with all applicable federal and state reporting requirements for its employees
and with all lawfully served Wage and Earnings Assignment Orders and Notices of
Assignment and will continue to be in compliance throughout the Term of this Agreement
with the County of Orange. I understand that failure to comply shall constitute a
material breach of the Agreement and that failure to cure such breach within 60 calendar
days of notice from the County shall constitute grounds for termination of the Agreement
without costs to the County.”
It is expressly understood that this data will be transmitted to
government agencies charged with the establishment and enforcement of child support
orders and for no other purposes.
Failure of the contractor to timely submit the data and/or
certifications required above or to comply with all federal and state reporting
requirements for child support enforcement or to comply with all lawfully served Wage
and Earnings Assignments Orders and Notices of Assignment shall constitute a material
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 25
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
breach of the Agreement. Failure to cure such breach within 60 calendar days of notice
from the County shall constitute grounds for termination of this Agreement.
7.27 Labor Standards. To the extent applicable, the Borrower agrees to
comply with the requirements of the California Department of Industrial Relations
Prevailing Wage Requirements and the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the Davis-
Bacon Act as amended, the provisions of Contract Work Hours, the Safety Standards Act,
the Copeland “Anti-Kickback” Act (40 U.S.C. 276, 327-333) and all other applicable
federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to labor standards insofar as those
acts apply to the performance of this Agreement. The Borrower shall maintain
documentation, which demonstrates compliance with hour, and wage requirements of this
part. Such documentation shall be made available to the County for review upon request.
The Borrower agrees that, except with respect to the rehabilitation or construction of
residential property designed for residential use for less than twelve (12) units, all
contractors engaged under contracts in excess of $2,000.00 for construction, renovation
or repair of any building or work financed in whole or in part with assistance provided
under this Agreement, shall comply with federal requirements adopted by the County
pertaining to such contracts and with the applicable requirements of the regulations of the
U.S. Department of Labor, under 29 CFR, Parts 1, 3, 5, 7 and 1926 governing the
payment of wages and ratio of apprentices and trainees to journeymen; provided, that if
wage rates higher than those required under the regulations are imposed by state or local
law, nothing herein is intended to relieve the Borrower of its obligation, if any, to require
payment of the higher rate. The Borrower shall cause or require to be inserted in full, in
all such contracts subject to such regulations, provisions meeting the requirements of this
paragraph, for such contracts in excess of $10,000.00.
7.28 Section 92.252 Qualification as Affordable Housing and Income Targeting
Rental Housing.
The requirements of 24 CFR 92.252 are incorporated into this Agreement as if
fully set forth herein.
7.29 Section 92.253 Tenant and Participant Protections.
The requirement of 24 CFR 92.253 are incorporated into this Agreement as if
fully set forth herein.
7.30 Annual Audit.
Following the Conversion Date and commencing on the date six (6) months after
closing of the Borrower’s previous year’s books and every one year anniversary date
thereafter during the Term, Borrower shall submit to County the following audit
reporting package (the “Audit Reporting Package”). [If federal funds are awarded, said
Audit Reporting Package shall be in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.] County
reserves the right to revise the Audit Reporting Package requirements in accordance with
any revision to Federal, State or County rules, regulations, ordinances, laws and statutes.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 26
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
Unless otherwise required by 2 CFR part 200, the Audit Reporting Package shall include
the following:
(a) Financial Statements for the Project, preferably with a classified Balance
Sheet identifying Current Assets and Current Liabilities;
(b) [Schedule of expenditures of Federal awards;]
(c) Independent Auditor’s report;
(d) Summary schedule and prior audit findings, if applicable;
(e) Corrective action plan, if applicable;
(f) [SF-SAC (Single Audit Collection) Data Collection Form; and]
(g) Management Letter.
7.31 Operating Reserve
Borrower shall establish an interest bearing account to be known as the Operating
Reserve Account. Upon the Conversion Date shall deposit an amount into the Operating
Reserve Account sufficient to pay three (3) months of operating expenses and three (3)
months of mandatory debt service payments (“Target Balance”).
Funds shall be invested subject to the prior written approval of the County, which
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and any earnings shall become and remain a
part of the Operating Reserve. Funds may be drawn only when revenue is insufficient to
pay operating expenses. The Borrowers shall not draw funds from the Operating Reserve
Account without the prior written approval of the County, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
If the balance in the Operating Reserve Account falls below the amount required
to pay three (3) months of operating expenses and three (3) months of mandatory debt
service payments, then Borrower shall apply Residual Receipts, when and if available, or
other funds, to the replenishment of Operating Reserves until the Target Balance is
achieved.
In the event of a failure by the Borrower to pay operating expenses, mandatory
debt service payments, or other payments required under the Loan Documents or
Mortgage Loan Documents, or during the continuance of an event of default by Borrower
under the Loan Documents or Mortgage Loan Documents that would provide for the
acceleration of the Loan or Mortgage Loan, then County may, after delivery of notice to
Borrower and the expiration of any applicable cure periods, apply the funds in the
Operating Reserve Account to the Loan, a Mortgage Loan, or use such funds for the
continued operation of the Project.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 27
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
7.32 Replacement Reserve
At or before the Conversion Date, Borrower shall establish an interest bearing
account to be known as the Replacement Reserve Account. Annually prior to March 31
of each year, Borrower shall deposit into the Replacement Reserve Account an amount
equal to three hundred dollars ($XXX) per unit or such higher amount as may be required
by a tax creditor investor or senior Mortgagee and approved by County, which approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Funds shall be invested subject to the prior
written approval of the County and any earnings shall become and remain a part of the
Replacement Reserve. The Borrowers shall not draw funds from the Replacement
Reserve Account without the prior written approval of the County, which approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld.
Funds may only be drawn from the Replacement Reserve Account to replace or
maintain Project assets which have a useful life of more than one (1) year in accordance
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), and have been or will be
depreciated on the Partnership Tax Return, Form 1040P, filed with the Internal Revenue
Service by the Borrower’s accountant.
In the event of a failure by the Borrower to adequately maintain the Project, or
pay operating expenses, mandatory debt service payments, or other payments required
under the Loan Documents or Mortgage Loan Documents, or during the continuance of
an event of default by Borrower under the Loan Documents or Mortgage Loan
Documents that would provide for the acceleration of the Loan or Mortgage Loan, then
County may, after delivery of notice to Borrower and the expiration of any applicable
cure periods, apply the funds in the Replacement Reserve Account to the Loan, a
Mortgage Loan, or use such funds for the maintenance, improvement, or continued
operation of the Project.
ARTICLE VIII
DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
8.1 Events of Default. Each of the following shall constitute an "Event of
Default" by Borrower under this Agreement:
(a) Failure to Make Note Payments. Borrower fails to make any payment of
principal and/or interest under the Note when due, after ten (10) days notice from County.
Any payment that falls due on a non-business day may be made the next succeeding
business day without penalty and shall not be considered a past-due payment;
(b) Failure to Make Other Payments. Borrower fails to perform any other
obligation for the payment of money (other than payments described in subparagraph (a)
above) under any Loan Document within ten (10) days after County gives Borrower
written notice that such obligation was not performed or paid for;
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 28
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
(c) Non-Monetary Failure to Perform. Borrower fails to timely perform,
comply with or observe any of the terms, covenants, or conditions of this Agreement or
any other Loan Document (other than those provisions elsewhere referred to in this
Section 8.1) and such failure continues uncured or without Borrower commencing to dili-
gently cure for thirty (30) days after notice thereof in writing is given by the County to
Borrower, provided that if Borrower has commenced cure but cannot complete such cure
reasonably within thirty (30) days, Borrower shall have ninety (90) days from the date of
notice to cure such failure without such failure constituting an event of default;
(d) Mortgage Loan Document Breach. Any default or breach of Borrower
that continues uncured after the expiration of any applicable cure period under any other
loan document including, but not limited to, the Mortgage Loan Documents (including
but not limited to the Junior HSA Deed of Trust and any related documents);
(e) Voluntary Suspension. The voluntary suspension of Borrower's business
or the dissolution or termination of the partnership (if any) constituting Borrower;
(f) Unauthorized Transfer. Borrower’s sale or other transfer of the Property
or the Project in violation of Section 7.7 above;
(g) Fraud or Material Misstatement or Omissions. Any fraudulent act or
omission of Borrower's, or intentional misrepresentation of Borrower's, pertaining to or
made in connection with the Loan, Loan Documents or the Project;
(h) Insolvency. A court having jurisdiction shall have made or entered any
decree or order (i) adjudging Borrower to be bankrupt or insolvent, (ii) approving as
properly filed a petition seeking reorganization of Borrower or seeking any arrangement
for Borrower under the bankruptcy law or any other applicable debtor's relief law or
statute of the United States or any state or other jurisdiction, (iii) appointing a receiver,
trustee, liquidator, or assignee of Borrower in bankruptcy or insolvency or for any of their
properties, or (iv) directing the winding up or liquidation of Borrower, if any such decree
or order described in clauses (i) to (iv), inclusive, shall have continued unstayed or
undischarged for a period of ninety (90) days unless a lesser time period is permitted for
cure under any other mortgage on the Property, in which event such lesser time period
will apply under this subsection 8.1(h) as well; or Borrower shall have admitted in
writing its inability to pay its debts as they fall due or shall have voluntarily submitted to
or filed a petition seeking any decree or order of the nature described in clauses (i) to (iv),
inclusive. The occurrence of any of the events of default in this paragraph shall act to
accelerate automatically, without the need for any action by the County, the indebtedness
evidenced by the Note; or
(i) Project Monies. Borrower’s misapplication or embezzlement of Project
monies.
8.2 Remedies. The occurrence of any Event of Default shall, either at the
option of the County or automatically where so specified, relieve the County of any
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 29
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
obligation to make or continue the Loan and shall give the County the right to proceed
with any and all remedies set forth in this Agreement and the Loan Documents or
otherwise available at law or in equity or by statute (and all of the County's rights and
remedies shall be cumulative), including but not limited to the following:
(a) Acceleration of Note. The County shall have the right to cause all
indebtedness of the Borrower to the County under this Agreement and the Note, together
with any accrued interest thereon, to become immediately due and payable. The
Borrower waives all right to presentment, demand, protest or notice of protest, or
dishonor. The County may proceed to enforce payment of the indebtedness and to
exercise any or all rights afforded to the County as a creditor and secured party under the
law including the Uniform Commercial Code, including foreclosure under the Deed of
Trust. The Borrower shall be liable to pay the County on demand all expenses, costs and
fees (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and expenses) paid or incurred by the
County in connection with the collection of the Loan and the preservation, maintenance,
protection, sale, or other disposition of the security given for the Loan.
(b) Specific Performance. The County shall have the right to mandamus or
other suit, action or proceeding at law or in equity to require Borrower to perform its
obligations and covenants under the Loan Documents or to enjoin acts on things that may
be unlawful or in violation of the provisions of the Loan Documents.
(c) Right to Cure at Borrower's Expense. The County shall have the right to
cure any monetary default by Borrower under a loan other than the Loan. The Borrower
agrees to reimburse the County for any funds advanced by the County to cure a monetary
default by Borrower upon demand therefore, together with interest thereon at the rate of
twelve percent (12%) per annum (which rate shall in no event exceed the maximum rate
permitted by law and if it does, said rate shall be reduced to the maximum rate then
permitted by law), from the date of expenditure until the date of reimbursement.
8.3 Remedies Cumulative. No right, power, or remedy given to the County by
the terms of this Agreement or the Loan Documents is intended to be exclusive of any
other right, power, or remedy; and each and every such right, power, or remedy shall be
cumulative and in addition to every other right, power, or remedy given to the County by
the terms of any such instrument, or by any statute or otherwise against Borrower and any
other person. Neither the failure nor any delay on the part of the County to exercise any
such rights and remedies shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial
exercise by the County of any such right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise
of such right or remedy, or any other right or remedy.
8.4 Waiver of Terms and Conditions. No waiver of any default or breach by
Borrower hereunder shall be implied from any omission by the County to take action on
account of such default if such default persists or is repeated, and no express waiver shall
affect any default other than the default specified in the waiver, and such waiver shall be
operative only for the time and to the extent therein stated. Waivers of any covenant,
term, or condition contained herein shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 30
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
breach of the same covenant, term, or condition. The consent or approval by the County
to or of any act by Borrower requiring further consent or approval shall not be deemed to
waive or render unnecessary the consent or approval to or of any subsequent similar act.
The exercise of any right, power, or remedy shall in no event constitute a cure or a waiver
of any default under this Agreement or the Loan Documents, nor shall it invalidate any
act done pursuant to notice of default, or prejudice the County in the exercise of any
right, power, or remedy hereunder or under the Loan Documents, unless in the exercise
of any such right, power, or remedy all obligations of Borrower to County are paid and
discharged in full.
ARTICLE IX
MISCELLANEOUS
9.1 Approvals Under Agreement. Where this Agreement requires an approval
or consent of the County, such approval or consent may be given on behalf of the County
by the Director or his or her designee.
9.2 Time. Time is of the essence in this Agreement.
9.3 Notices. Any notice requirement set forth herein shall be in writing and
delivered to the appropriate party at the address listed in this subparagraph. Addresses
for notice may be changed from time to time by written notice to the other party. All
communications shall be effective when actually received; provided, however, that
nonreceipt of any communication as the result of a change in address of which the
sending party was not notified or as the result of a refusal to accept delivery shall be
deemed receipt of such communication.
Borrower:
[BORROWER TO PROVIDE]
County:
[Orange County Housing Authority]
[County of Orange
OC Community Resources/
Housing & Community Development]
1501 E. St. Andrew Place, 1st Floor,
Santa Ana, CA 92705
Attn: [Executive] Director
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 31
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
Such addresses may be changed by notice to the other party given in the same manner as
provided above.
9.4 No Third Parties Benefitted. This Agreement is made and entered into for
the sole protection and benefit of the County, its successors and assigns, and Borrower,
its permitted successors and assigns, and no other person or persons shall have any right
of action hereon.
9.5 County to File Notices. Borrower irrevocably appoints, designates, and
authorizes the County as its agent (said agency being coupled with an interest) to file for
record any notice that the County deems necessary or desirable to protect its interest
hereunder and under the Loan Documents.
9.6 Actions. The County shall have the right to commence, appear in, or
defend any action or proceeding purporting to affect the rights, duties, or liabilities of the
parties hereunder, or the disbursement of any proceeds of the Loan.
9.7 Successors and Assigns. The terms hereof shall be binding upon and inure
to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the parties hereto; provided, however, that
no assignment of Borrower's rights hereunder shall be made, voluntarily or by operation
of law, without the prior written consent of the County as specified in Section 8.7 above,
and that any such assignment without said consent shall be void.
9.8 Construction of Words. Except where the context otherwise requires,
words imparting the singular number shall include the plural number and vice versa,
words imparting persons shall include firms, associations, partnerships and corporations,
and words of either gender shall include the other gender.
9.9 Partial Invalidity. If any provision of this Agreement shall be declared
invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the validity, legality, and enforceability of the
remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired.
9.10 Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement and the Loan Documents
and other instruments given pursuant hereto shall be construed in accordance with and be
governed by the laws of the State of California. In the event of any legal action to
enforce or interpret this Agreement or any of the Loan Documents, the sole and exclusive
venue shall be a court of competent jurisdiction located in Orange County, California,
and the parties hereto agree to and do hereby submit to the jurisdiction of such court,
notwithstanding Code of Civil Procedure Section 394.
9.11 Amendment. This Agreement may not be changed orally, but only by an
agreement in writing signed by Borrower and the County.
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 32
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
9.12 Approvals. Where an approval or submission is required under this
Agreement, such approval or submission shall be valid for purposes of this Agreement
only if made in writing.
9.13 Captions and Headings. Captions and headings in this Agreement are for
convenience of reference only, and are not to be considered in construing the Agreement.
9.14 Nonliability. By accepting or approving anything required to be
performed or given to County under the Loan Documents, including any certificate,
financial statement, survey, or insurance policy, County shall not be deemed to have
warranted or represented the sufficiency or legal effect of the same, and no such
acceptance or approval shall constitute a warranty or representation by County to anyone.
9.15 Obligations Unconditional and Independent. Notwithstanding the
existence at any time of any obligation or liability of County to Borrower, or any claim
by Borrower against County, in connection with the Loan or otherwise, Borrower hereby
waives any right it might otherwise have (a) to offset any such obligation, liability or
claim against Borrower’s obligations under the Loan Documents or (b) to claim that the
existence of any such obligation, liability or claim excuses the nonperformance by
Borrower of any of its obligations under the Loan Documents.
9.16 Survival of Representations and Warranties. All representations and
warranties of Borrower in the Loan Documents shall survive the making of the Loan and
have been or will be relied on by County notwithstanding any investigation made by
County.
9.17 Prior Agreements. This Agreement (together with the other Loan
Documents) contains the entire agreement between County and Borrower with respect to
the Loan and all prior negotiations, understandings and agreements (including, but not
limited to, any commitment letter issued by County to Borrower) are superseded by this
Agreement and such Loan Documents.
9.18 Conflicts. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this
Agreement and those of any other Loan Document, this Agreement shall prevail;
provided, however, that with respect to any matter addressed in both such documents, the
fact that one document provides for greater, lesser or different rights or obligations than
the other shall not be deemed a conflict unless the applicable provisions are inconsistent
and could not be simultaneously enforced or performed.
9.19 Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury. Unless prohibited by Federal, State or
local laws, each party to this Agreement hereby expressly waives any right to trial by jury
of any claim, demand, action or cause of action arising under any Loan Document or in
any way connected with or related or incidental to the dealings of the parties hereto or
any of them with respect to any Loan Document, or the transactions related thereto, in
each case whether now existing or hereafter arising, and whether sounding in contract or
tort or otherwise; and each party hereby agrees and consents that any such claim,
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 33
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
demand, action or cause of action shall be decided by court trial without a jury, and that
any party to this Agreement may file an original counterpart or a copy of this section with
any court as written evidence of the consent of the parties hereto to the waiver of their
right to trial by jury.
9.20. Multiple Originals; Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in
multiple originals, each of which is deemed to be an original, and may be signed in
counterparts. This Agreement shall become effective when the parties have duly executed
and delivered signature pages of this Agreement to each other. Delivery of this
Agreement shall be effectuated by electronic communication (including by PDF sent by
electronic mail, facsimile or similar means of electronic communication). Any signatures
(including electronic signatures) delivered by electronic communication shall have the
same legal effect as physically delivered original signatures.
and year first above written.
--SIGNATURE PAGES FOLLOW --
[ ] – County Loan Agreement 34
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
BORROWER:
[SIGNATURE BLOCK]
[ ] – County Loan Agreement Borrower Signature Page
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
COUNTY:
COUNTY OF ORANGE, a political subdivision of the
state of California
By:____________________________________
Julia Bidwell, Director
OC Community Resources,
Housing and Community Development
APPROVED AS TO FORM
COUNTY COUNSEL
ORANGE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
By____________________________
Deputy
Dated__________________________
[ ] – County Loan Agreement County Signature Page
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
[ ] – County Loan Agreement Exhibit A
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
EXHIBIT B
EXTREMELY LOW QUALIFIED TENANT/UNIT MIX
[ ], California
HOME RENT & AFFORDABILITY SCHEDULE
Number Number * Gross **Utility ***Net Income Age Project Number
of of Restricted Allowance Restricted Limit Restriction Based of Years
Restricted Bedrooms Rental Rate Rental based on (if any) Sectio Restricted
Units Rate Area n 8
Median Units
Income
(AMI)
Total Total
* Restricted Rental Rate is based on the 2021 Area Median Income (AMI) published by HUD annually and does not include the
utility allowance deduction. UPDATED RENTAL RATE TO BE PROVIDED AT START OF QUALIFIED PROJECT PERIOD.
** Utility allowance is based on the 2022 utility schedule published by the Orange County Housing Authority annually.
*** Rent increases shall be limited to no more than the lower of rent established as affordable based on the Median
Income for the Area and the affordability restrictions set forth above, which is adjusted annually by HUD and
published by the State of California, as referenced in the Loan Agreement Section 3.1(d) except as otherwise
provided in the Loan Agreement Section 3.1(d).
[ ] – County Loan Agreement Exhibit B
Low and Very Low Qualified Tenant/Unit Mix
2023 Supportive Housing NOFA Amendment
OC Housing and Community Development
March 2024
ATTACHMENT N 1
EXHIBIT C
Annual Statement Guidelines
Gross Revenue
Rental Income (including PBV/VASH income)
Laundry & Miscellaneous
Operating Expenses
Obligated debt service on the Senior Loan
Operating reserves
Replacement reserves ($-----/unit)
County annual loan monitoring fee
Other public agency monitoring fees, as applicable
Asset management and property management fee
Utility fees
Property taxes
Insurance premiums
Operating and maintenance expenses
Supportive/Resident services
Cash Flow After Debt Service
Soft Lenders (as applicable)
Partnership Management Fees:
Limited Partner Asset Management Fee in the amount of $-----
General Partner Partnership Management Fee in the amount of $-----
[combined amount not to exceed $25,000 per year per the 2023 NOFA]
Deferred developer fee
Cash Flow Percentage Available for Distribution to the County, as further described
in the Promissory Note
[ ]% County of Orange
County loan accrues at 3% simple interest annually
[ ] – County Loan Agreement Exhibit C
Annual Statement Guidelines