a9 RENTAL AGREEMENT
Consideration Price / Others (Rs.) : 23,000
(Twenty Three Thousand only)
First Party : VIDYANS
Second Party : MRINAL MIDHA SWITHIN FERNANDES AND VAN: TIA
- é CO-GPER
Stamp Duty Paid By : VIDYANS SG man
Stamp Duty Amount(Rs.) BS ik) AS) Boren) cA
(One Hundred And Fifteen only) of “ag23ns6 Yo
Bl. Yetahanke o
\_ Bangalore 64 f° :
Zz en FP
GY sy,
Wy a
fobs mie Genel Ngati
Dos oo
Sas A ices etre
BRED
RENTAL AGREEMENT
This Rental agreement is made and executed on 27" day of August 2024
(27-08-2024) at Bangalore by and between:
Mrs. VIDYA SRIDHARAN NUGGEHALLI, Aged about 43 years, W/o GR
Srinivas, residing at No.C-005, Zed Woods Apartments, Doddaballapura Road,
Near Presidency School, Avalahalli, Yelahanka New Town, Bengaluru-560064.
Hereinafter referred to as the “LESSOR/OWNER” (which expression shall mean
and include his successors, legal representatives, executors, administrators, and
assigns) of the First Part. AND
Mr. MRINAL MIDHA, Aged about 20 years, Resident of C/o Virender Kumar
Midha, HN 158, Durga Colony, Hanumangarh, Rajasthan-335512. Aadhar No.4694
3822 7626.
Mr. SWITHIN FEMANDES, Aged about 20 years, S/o Sunil Femandes, Residing
at Mount Mary Residency, Kahagury First cross Road, Aikala, Dakshina Kannada,
Karnataka-574141. Aadhar No.6145 4054 9208.
Mr. VANSHAM BHATIA, Aged about 21 years, S/o Kapil Bhatia, Residing at
No.691, Chhabil Dass Colony, Near State Bank of Patiyala, Hisar, Haryana-125113.
Aadhar No7676 9503 7223
Hereinafter referred to as the “LESSEES/TENANTS” (which expression shall
mean and include his successors, legal representatives, executors, administrators,
and assigns) of the Other Part.
WHEREAS AS FOLLOWS:
Whereas the lessor is the sole and absolute owner of the property bearing at No. B-
6204, 2" Floor, Doddaballapura Main Road, Avalahalli, Yelahanka New
Town, Bengaluru-560064. The Lessee has approached the Lessor and offered to
take on lease the premises for a period of 11 months, which offer has been accepted
by the Lessor on the terms and conditions hereinafter contained:
That in consideration of the rents hereby reserved and of the terms, conditions and
covenants of the rent here in contained and on the part of the parties to be observed
and performed that the LESSOR agrees to grant and the LESSEE hereby agrees to
accept the rent of the schedule premises.
1. DURATION: The duration of the rental agreement shall be for a period of
Eleven (11) months, commencing from Date 01-08-2024 and is subject to
renewal thereafter under mutual agreed terms and conditions by the lessor and
the lessee with an enhancement of 5% in the monthly rent for every 11 months.
2. RENT: The monthly rent for house payable by the lessee to the lessor for the
schedule property shall be Rs. 23,000/- (Rupees Twenty Three Thousand
Only) including maintenance this amount shall be paid every month within 10
day of subsequent month.
—_—_—_— ee ee
3. DEPOSIT: The lessee has paid sum of Rs. 1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Only)
by the way online transfer to the Owner towards the security deposit. The said
. amount shall not bear any interest and the owner will refund the same to the
tenant at the time of vacating and handing over the schedule premises.
4. ELECTRICAL CHARGES: The lessee shall pay the electrical to the concerned
department regularly as per the bill without fail in consultation with tenant. If
any minor repairs in connection with electrical and plumbing to get them repair
by lessee only, as per the monthly bill.
5. INTERNAL MAINTENANCE: The lessee shall maintain the schedule property
in a state of good order and condition and shall not cause any damage or
disfigurement to the schedule property there in expecting wear and tear.
6. LIABLE FOR DAMAGES: It is agreed that any damages caused by the lessee in
the schedule property shall be made good by the lessee promptly.
7, ADDITIONS AND ALTERATIONS: The lessee shall not make any additions or
alteration in the premises, without written consent of lessor.
8. USER: The schedule property shall be used by the lessee for Residential Purpose
Only. And shall not use for any unlawful/illegal or business purpose. The lessee
will not store hazardous and inflammable articles like explosives and petroleum
products.
9. TAXES AND CESSES: The lessor shall bear and pay taxes, rates and cesses in
regard to the schedule property.
10.SUB LEASE: The lessee shall not be entitled or permitted to assign, underlet or
sublet the schedule premises or any part thereof or part with possession of the
demised property or any part thereof to anybody whatsoever.
11. PAINTING CHARGES: the tenant should pay painting at the time of vacating
the premises. Or get the painted by his own or deducted one month rent from the
deposit amount.
12. TERMINATION OF THE RENT: In the event of Tenant/Owner wanting the
Scheduled Premises to be vacated, they shall give a notice of 3(Three) months
in advance.
13.In case tenant fails to pay the stipulated rent continuously for more than two
months and commits breach of any of the terms, the owners hereby reserves the
right to terminate the agreement and shall have every right to evict the tenant and
take possession of the said schedule premises without any notice.
SCHEDULE PROPERTY
All the piece and parcel of the property bearing situated at No. B6204, 2" Floor,
Doddaballapura Main Road, Avalahalli, Yelahanka New Town, Bengaluru-
560064. RCC Roofing House, It consists of One Hall, Kitchen, Two Bedrooms Two
Bathrooms and Toilets with water and electricity facilities.
respective signatures on the day, month and year above mentioned in the presence
of the following witnesses.
1 Gus OWN SOR
(SR mires FoeHk) p ane”
Page 40f 4